Mobility for learners and staff in adult education
This action supports adult education providers and other organisations active in the field of adult education that want to organise learning mobility activities for adult learners and education staff.
The action is open to a very diverse range of organisations, such as adult education schools and learning centres; civil society, non-governmental and volunteering organisations; counselling centres, libraries, museums, cultural, community and social centres; as well as other organisations working for persons with disabilities, senior citizens, persons at the risk of poverty or social exclusion, etc.
A wide range of activities are supported, including individual and group mobility of adult learners, job shadowing and professional development courses for staff, invited experts, and other activities as explained below.
Adult learners can include any persons benefitting from activities and services provided by organisations active in adult education. Projects can organise activities focusing on citizenship, learning about Europe, community services, volunteering, intergenerational exchanges, critical thinking, active aging, etc.
The participating organisations should actively promote inclusion and diversity, environmental sustainability, digital education, as well as civic engagement and participation through their activities. They should do so by using the specific funding opportunities provided by the Programme for these purposes, by raising awareness among their participants, by sharing best practices, and by choosing appropriate design for their activities.
Objectives of the Action
This action aims to provide learning opportunities to individuals and to support internationalisation and institutional development of adult education providers and other organisations active in the field of adult education. The action will contribute to the implementation of the Skills Agenda and to the creation of the European Education Area. Specifically, the objectives of this action are:
raising the participation of adults of all ages and socio-economic background in adult education, especially by fostering participation of organisations working with disadvantaged learners, small adult education providers, newcomers to the Programme and less experienced organisations, as well as community-based grassroots organisations
strengthening the European dimension of teaching and learning
promoting values of inclusion and diversity, tolerance, and democratic participation
promoting knowledge about shared European heritage and diversity
supporting development of professional networks across Europe
Improving the quality of formal, informal and non-formal adult education in Europe for key competences as defined by the EU framework (2018), including basic skills (literacy, numeracy, digital skills) and other life skills
extend and diversify adult education offer through professionalisation of educators and building capacity of adult education providers
simplifying the implementation and accessibility of high quality  teaching and learning programmes in all forms of adult education, and making them relevant to the needs of individual and the society at large
building the capacity of adult education providers to carry out high quality mobility projects
How to access Erasmus+ mobility opportunities?
Adult education providers and other organisations active in adult education can apply for funding in two ways:
Short-term projects for mobility of learners and staff – these projects provide applicants with an opportunity to organise various mobility activities over a period of six to eighteen months. Short-term projects are the best choice for organisations applying to Erasmus+ for the first time, or for those that wish to organise only a limited number of activities.
Accredited projects for mobility of learners and staff – these projects are open only to organisations holding an Erasmus accreditation in the field of adult education. This special funding strand allows accredited organisations to regularly receive funding for mobility activities that contribute to the gradual implementation of their Erasmus Plan. Erasmus accreditations are open to all organisations that seek to organise mobility activities on a regular basis. Previous experience in the Programme is not required to apply for an accreditation. To find out more about this opportunity, please read the chapter of this guide on Erasmus accreditation in the fields of adult education, vocational education and training, and school education.
In addition, organisations can join the Programme without submitting an application by:
Joining an existing Erasmus mobility consortium led by an accredited consortium coordinator in their country that is accepting new members in their consortium.
Hosting participants from another country: any organisation can become a host for participants coming from a partner organisation abroad. Becoming a hosting organisation is a valuable experience and a good way to create partnerships and learn more about the Programme before applying yourself.
Setting up a project
The applicant organisation is the key actor in a Key Action 1 project. The application process for both short-term projects and Erasmus accreditations focuses on the needs and plans of the applicant organisation (or its consortium). The applicant organisation drafts and submits the application, signs the grant agreement, implements the mobility activities, and reports to their National Agency.  Once the grant agreement enters into force, the applicant formally becomes the ‘beneficiary’ of an EU grant.
Mobility activities in a mobility project can be outgoing and incoming. Most types of available activities are outgoing mobility activities. This means that the applicant organisation will act as a sending organisation (the beneficiary): it will select participants and send them to a hosting organisation abroad. In addition, there are special types of activities that allow applicant organisations to invite experts, teachers and educators in training to their organisation. The purpose of incoming activities is not to create two-way exchanges, but rather to bring in persons who can help develop and internationalise the applicant organisation.
Implementation of all activities supported under this Action must follow the Erasmus quality standards. The Erasmus quality standards cover concrete implementation practices for project tasks such as selection and preparation of participants, definition, evaluation and recognition of learning outcomes, sharing of project results, etc.
Language learning is an important part of every mobility project: beneficiary organisations should provide their participants with language learning support before and during the mobility activities. For this purpose, Erasmus+ funds the Online Language Support platform which is free and open for use by all Erasmus+ participants.
How to find partners for your mobility activities?
Erasmus+ provides various tools and opportunities to find partners for your mobility activities:
EPALE - the Electronic Platform for adult learning in Europe - offers an online partner-finding tool. By registering your organisation on the platform you can post partner-finding announcements and search through announcements made by other organisations.
Training and Cooperation Activities are regularly organised by Erasmus+ National Agencies. They include contact seminars, online events and other partner-finding opportunities for Erasmus+ applicants and beneficiaries. Information about TCAs is available on relevant National Agency websites and the SALTO Education & Training TCA Resource Centre website.
The Erasmus+ Project Results Platform allows you to search for all accredited organisations and approved projects.
Horizontal dimensions
All mobilty projects should integrate the following dimensions common to the whole Erasmus+ programme.
Inclusion and diversity
In line with the Erasmus quality standards, organisations that receive support from the Programme must ensure that they offer mobility opportunities in an inclusive and equitable way, to participants from all backgrounds. The selection of learners that will take part in project activities should take into account key factors such as motivation, merit, as well as personal development and learning needs of the participants. Similarly, selection of staff participants should ensure that benefits of their professional development are available to all learners in the organisation.
Throughout the preparation, implementation and follow-up of mobility activities, the sending and hosting organisations should involve the participants in key decisions to ensure maximum benefits and impact for each participant.
Beneficiaries and other participating organisations that provide education and training are encouraged to actively create and facilitate mobility opportunities, for example by establishing mobility windows in their academic calendar and defining standard re-integration steps for returning participants.
Environmentally sustainable and responsible practices
In line with the Erasmus quality standards, organisations that receive support from the Programme must promote environmentally sustainable and responsible behaviour among their participants, raising the awareness about the importance of acting to reduce or compensate for the environmental footprint of mobility activities. These principles should be reflected in the preparation and implementation of all Programme activities, especially by using specific funding support provided by the Programme to promote sustainable means of travel. Organisations providing education and training should integrate these principles in their everyday work, and should actively promote a change of mind-set and behaviour among their learners and staff. 
Digital transformation in education and training
In line with the Erasmus quality standards, the Programme supports all participating organisations in incorporating the use of digital tools and learning methods to complement their physical activities, to improve the cooperation between partner organisations, and to improve the quality of their learning and teaching. In addition, participants can benefit from Digital Opportunity Traineeships: mobility activities allowing them to acquire digital skills and letting staff build their capacity to train, teach and complete other tasks with the help of digital tools. Such activities can be organised with any of the available mobility formats.
Participation in democratic life
The programme aims to help the participants discover the benefits of active citizenship and participation in democratic life. Supported mobility activities should reinforce participatory skills in different spheres of civic society, as well as development of social and intercultural competences, critical thinking and media literacy. Wherever possible, projects should offer opportunities for participation in democratic life, social and civic engagement through formal or non-formal learning activities. They should also improve participants’ understanding of the European Union and the common European values, including respect for democratic principles, human dignity, unity and diversity, intercultural dialogue, as well as European social, cultural and historical heritage.
Development of key competences
The programme supports life-long development and reinforcing of key competences needed for personal development and fulfilment, employability, active citizenship and social inclusion. Participating organisations should offer training and learning activities adapted to the specific needs of learners, helping them to achieve economic independence and dismantling barriers they face in education and social contacts.
Activities
This section presents the types of activities that can be funded by Erasmus+, within short-term projects as well as in accredited projects.
All learning mobility activities must be:
Educational: intended for participants to improve or gain new knowledge, skills, competences and attitudes
Transnational: involving interactions between people from different countries with the purpose of mutual exchange and learning
Structured: having a clear methodology, learning programme and planned learning outcomes
Strategic: contributing to a wider set of project or accreditations objectives
All learner and staff mobility activities must be hosted at an organisation abroad, with hosting organisations’ staff in the lead role (hosting organisations are also referred to as ‘receiving organisations’). Sending organisation’s subsidiaries or other entities related to the sending organisation cannot act as hosting organisations if they do not fulfil the requirement for transnational activities.
For any activity, additional financial support can be provided for persons accompanying participants with fewer opportunities. Accompanying persons can be supported for whole or part of the activity’s duration.
Staff mobility
Eligible activities
Job shadowing (2 to 60 days)
Teaching or training assignments (2 to 365 days)
Courses and training (2 to 10 days)
In addition to physical mobility, all staff mobility activities can be blended with virtual learning activities. The minimum and maximum durations specified above apply to the physical mobility component.
Implemented activities must fulfil the following qualitative requirements:
Job shadowing: participants can spend a period of time at a hosting organisation in another country with the aim of learning new practices and gathering new ideas through observation and interaction. Job shadowing requires a clear identification of the main mentor at the hosting organisation – the person who is being shadowed by the participant. A maximum of two participants can be shadowing the same mentor at the same time.
Teaching or training assignments: participants can spend a period of time teaching or providing training to learners at a hosting organisation in another country, in order to learn by completing their tasks and exchanging with peers.
Courses and training: participants can benefit from a structured course or a similar kind of training provided by qualified professionals, based on a pre-defined learning programme and learning outcomes.
A maximum of three persons from the same sending organisation and a maximum of ten persons from the same mobility consortium can receive funding for attending the same course together. Each person can participate in only one course per project.
The training must involve participants from at least two different countries and must allow participants to interact with other learners and with the trainers. Entirely passive activities such as listening to lectures, speeches or mass conferences are not supported.
The training must include a clear transnational component, for example by fostering learning interaction between participants from two different countries and by integrating other elements of transnational transfer of practices, such as strong involvement of adult education staff from the hosting country to interact with and demonstrate their practices to colleagues coming from abroad.
The content of courses and training must be relevant for professional skills of the participating staff and the objectives of the project or accreditation.
For example, supported activities can include courses and training organised by public institutions or volunteer organisations, activities organised as part of an exchange of practices between organisations in different countries, as well as commercially available courses and training.  Entirely passive activities such as listening to lectures, speeches or mass conferences are not supported. Conferences and similarly titled events can be considered for funding only if participants spend most of their time in structured training, workshops, practical exercises, exchange of practices with colleagues, or other forms of active learning.
Applicants should be aware that all course providers are entirely independent from the Erasmus+ programme and are acting as service providers in a free market. The choice of courses and training is therefore a responsibility of the beneficiary organisation. The following quality standards are available as support to guide the applicants in their choice.
Eligible participants
Eligible participants include teachers, trainers, and all other non-teaching experts and staff in adult education.
Eligible non-teaching staff includes staff working in adult education, either in adult education providers (e.g. management staff, Erasmus+ coordinators, etc.) or in other organisations active in adult education (e.g. volunteers, counsellors,  Erasmus+ coordinators, policy coordinators in charge of adult education, etc.).
Participants must be working in the sending organisation, or must be regularly working with the sending organisation to help implement the organisation’s core activities (for example as external trainers, experts, volunteers, board members, inspectors, etc.).
In all cases, the tasks that link the participant to the sending organisation must be documented in a way that allows the National Agency to verify this link (for example with a work or volunteer contract, task description, or a similar document). The National Agencies shall establish a transparent and consistent practice on what constitutes acceptable working relationships and supporting documentation in their national context.
Staff members working remotely from abroad cannot take part in activities in the country they are working from.
Eligible venues
Activities must take place abroad, in an EU Member State or in a third country associated to the Programme. Activities must take place in the country where the host organisation is legally established. Each mobility activity can take place in only one country
 1
.
Documentation of learning outcomes
Requirements for documentation of learning outcomes are established in the Erasmus quality standards and further elaborated in the project grant agreement.
Before the mobility activity, the sending organisation, hosting organisation, and the participant must agree on a learning agreement (or a similar document) specifying the participant’s expected learning outcomes. For courses and training, a course programme can be used in place of a learning agreement.
After the activity, the participant’s achieved learning outcomes must be recognised by issuing a Europass Mobility or a similar document. The beneficiary organisation must keep a copy of the issued document as proof of having completed the activity. In addition, the National Agency may require that the beneficiary signs a grant agreement with the participant and keeps it as part of supporting documentation. This requirement must be stated in the grant agreement.
Learner mobility
Eligible activities
Group mobility of adult learners (2 to 30 days, at least two learners per group)
Short-term learning mobility of adult learners (2 to 29 days)
Long-term learning mobility of adult learners (30 to 365 days)
In addition to physical mobility, all learner mobility activities can be blended with virtual learning activities. The minimum and maximum durations specified above apply to the physical mobility component.
Implemented activities must fulfil the following qualitative requirements:
Group mobility of adult learners: a group of adult learners from the sending organisation can spend time in another country to benefit from innovative learning organised through cooperation between the sending and hosting organisations (purchase of commercially available training services is not supported). Activities may include a combination of various formal, informal and non-formal learning methods and techniques, such as peer learning, work-based learning, volunteering, and other innovative approaches. Qualified trainers from the sending organisation must accompany the learners for the entire duration of the activity and take part in the implementation of the learning programme. The content of group mobility activities should focus on key competences of adult learners or the inclusion and diversity, digital, environmental sustainability and participatory dimensions of the programme.
Short-term learning mobility of adult learners: adult learners can spend a period abroad at a hosting organisation to improve their knowledge and skills. An individual learning programme must be defined for each participant. The learning programme may include a combination of various formal, informal and non-formal learning methods.
Long-term learning mobility of adult learners: adult learners can spend a longer period abroad at a hosting organisation to improve their knowledge and skills. An individual learning programme must be defined for each participant. The learning programme may include a combination of various formal, informal and non-formal learning methods.
Please note that the difference between group and individual activity formats is not based on travelling and accommodation arrangements, but rather on requirements for collective or individual learning programmes, as described below under ‘Documentation of learning outcomes’. Accordingly,  a different level of organisational support is provided for group and individual activities, as defined in the funding rules presented at the end of this chapter. The group mobility format is recommended for simple activities that make use of existing resources and content, while individual formats are better suited for activities that require specific investment from the sending and receiving organisations (including in cases where several participants will be travelling and staying together).
Eligible participants
Eligible participants are learners benefitting from adult education programmes or activities
 2
 at the sending organisation.
When selecting participants, all projects should aim for an inclusive and balanced mix of participant profiles and significant involvement of participants with fewer opportunities, in line with the objectives of the action.
Eligible venues
Activities must take place abroad, in an EU Member State or in a third country associated to the Programme. Activities must take place in the country where the host organisation is legally established. Each mobility activity can take place in only one country
 3
.
Group mobility of adult learners must take place at the hosting organisation. Exceptionally, activities can take place at another venue in the country of the hosting organisation, if justified by the content and quality of the activity. In this case, travel of participants from the hosting organisation to the venue will not be considered as a transnational mobility activity. Additional funds therefore cannot be requested for this purpose.
In addition, group mobility of adult learners can take place at a seat of an Institution of the European Union if the activity is organised at or in cooperation with an EU institution
 4
Documentation of learning outcomes
Requirements for documentation of learning outcomes are established in the Erasmus quality standards and further elaborated in the project grant agreement.
Individual mobility activities: before the activity, the sending organisation, hosting organisation, and the participant must agree on a learning agreement (or a similar document) specifying the participant’s expected learning outcomes. After the activity, the participant’s achieved learning outcomes must be recognised by issuing a Europass Mobility or a similar document. The beneficiary organisation must keep a copy of the issued document as proof of having completed the activity. In addition, the National Agency may require that the beneficiary signs a grant agreement with the participant and keeps it as part of supporting documentation. This requirement must be stated in the grant agreement.
Group mobility activities: a learning programme must be defined for the whole group (individual learning agreements are not required). After the activity, beneficiary organisation must keep the learning programme and a participants list (including accompanying persons) as proof of having completed the activity.
Other supported activities
Eligible activities
Invited experts (2 to 60 days)
Hosting teachers and educators in training (10 to 365 days)
Implemented activities must fulfil the following qualitative requirements:
Invited experts: organisations can invite trainers, teachers, policy experts or other qualified professionals from abroad who can help improve the teaching, training and learning at the receiving organisation. For example, invited experts may provide training to the receiving organisation’s staff, demonstrate new teaching methods or help transfer good practices in organisation and management.
Hosting teachers and educators in training: applicant organisations can host teachers in training who want to spend a traineeship period abroad.
Eligible participants
Invited experts can be any persons from another EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme, who can provide expertise and training relevant for the needs and objectives of the organisation that invites them.
Hosting teachers and educators in training is available for participants who are enrolled in or recently graduated
 5
 from a teacher education programme (or a similar kind of education programme for trainers or educators) in another EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme. Funding support can be provided for their participation if a grant for the same purpose is not provided by the sending institution.
Eligible venues
Preparatory visits can take place in EU Member States and third countries associated to the Programme.
The venue for invited experts and teachers in training is always the beneficiary organisation (including consortium members).
Documentation of learning outcomes
For invited experts, the learning programme that the expert will deliver must be agreed with the hosting organisation before the activity. After the activity, the beneficiary organisation must keep the executed learning programme as proof of having completed the activity.
For hosted teachers and educators in training, requirements described for individual learner mobility activities are applicable.
Preparatory visits
What is a preparatory visit?
A preparatory visit is a visit to a prospective hosting organisation by staff from the sending organisation with the purpose of better preparing a learner or staff mobility activity.
When can a preparatory visit be organised?
Each preparatory visit must have a clear reasoning and must serve to improve inclusiveness, scope and quality of mobility activities.
For example, preparatory visits can be organised to better prepare mobility of participants with fewer opportunities, to start working with a new partner organisation, or to prepare longer mobility activities.
Preparatory visits can be organised in preparation for any type of learner or staff mobility, except ‘courses and training’.
Who can take part in a preparatory visit?
Preparatory visits can be carried out by any persons eligible for staff mobility activities and involved in the organisation of the project.
Exceptionally, learners who will take part in long-term learning mobility and participants with fewer opportunities in any type of activity can take part in preparatory visits for their activities.
A maximum of three persons can take part in a preparatory visit.
Where can preparatory visits take place?
Preparatory visits take place at the premises of the prospective hosting organisation, or any other venue where mobility activities are planned to take place. Rules applicable to venues of staff and learner mobility activities apply also to preparatory visits linked to those activities.
Only one preparatory visit can be organised per hosting organisation.
Short-term projects for mobility of learners and staff in adult education
Short-term projects for mobility of learners and staff are a straightforward and simple way to benefit from Erasmus+. Their purpose is to allow organisations to set up a few activities in an easy way and to gain experience in the Programme.
In order to stay simple, short-term projects include a limit on the number of participants and the duration of the project. The format is open only to individual organisations and not to consortium coordinators. Accredited organisations cannot apply for short-term projects since they already have permanent access to Erasmus+ funding.
The application for short-term projects includes a list and description of activities that the applicant organisation plans to organise.
Eligibility criteria
Eligible organisations: who can apply?
The following organisations are eligible
 6
 to apply:
Organisations providing formal, informal and non-formal adult education
 7
Local and regional public authorities, coordination bodies and other organisations with a role in the field of adult education
Organisations holding an Erasmus accreditation in adult education cannot apply for short-term projects.
Eligible countries
Applicant organisations must be established in an EU Member State or in a third country associated to the Programme Country.
Where to apply?
Applications are submitted to the National Agency of the country where the applicant organisation is established.
Application deadlines
Round 1 (for all National Agencies): 19 February at 12:00:00 (midday Brussels time)
Round 2: National Agencies may decide to open a second deadline (Round 2). In this case, the National Agency will inform the applicants through its website. For Round 2 applicants have to submit their applications by 1 October at 12:00:00 (midday Brussels time).
Project start dates
Projects can choose the following start dates:
Round 1: between 1 June and 31 December of the same year
Round 2 (if open): between 1 January and 31 May of the following year
Project duration
From 6 to 18 months
Number of applications
Per selection round, an organisation may apply for only one short-term project in the field of adult education.
Organisations that receive a grant for a short-term project under the first round of applications may not apply for the second round of the same call for proposals.
Within a period of any five consecutive call years, organisations may receive a maximum of three grants for short-term projects in the field of adult education. Grants received in the 2014-2020 period do not count towards this limit.
Eligible activities
All types of activities for adult education. For a detailed list and rules, see section ’Activities’.
To be eligible, applications must include at least one staff or learner mobility activity.
Project scope
An application for a short-term project can include a maximum of 30 participants in mobility activities.
Preparatory visits and participation of accompanying persons will not count towards this limit.
Supporting organisations
A supporting organisation is an organisation assisting a beneficiary organisation in practical aspects of project implementation that do not concern core project tasks. Core project tasks include financial management of the programme funds, contact with the National Agency, reporting on implemented activities, as well as all decisions that directly affect the content, quality and results of the implemented activities (such as the choice of activity type, duration, and the hosting organisation, definition and evaluation of learning outcomes), etc..  Involvement of a supporting organisation is subject to approval of the National Agency.
The role and obligations of supporting organisations must be formally defined between them and the beneficiary organisation. The supporting organisation acts under the supervision of the beneficiary organisation, who remains ultimately responsible for the results and quality of implemented activities. All contributions of supporting organisations must comply with the Erasmus quality standards.
In case of poor implementation of quality standards or other form of failure to comply with these requirements, the National Agency may request that the beneficiary stop receiving assistance for certain tasks and implements them itself. If the beneficiary does not comply, the National Agency may terminate the grant agreement.
Hosting organisations that provide learning content and mentoring to the beneficiary organisation’s participants are not considered supporting organisations, unless they are at the same time supporting the beneficiary in other project management tasks that are normally performed by the sending organisation.
Selection criteria, exclusion criteria and rules on original content and authorship
Applicants must have sufficient operational and financial capacity to implement the proposed project.  
Applicants must submit a signed declaration on their honour, certifying that they are not in any of the situations referred to in the exclusion criteria listed in Part C of this Guide. In addition, by signing the declaration, the applicants will certify that the submitted application contains original content authored by them, and that no other organisations or external individuals have been paid for drafting the application.
Please read Part C of this Guide for more information about the selection criteria, exclusion criteria and rules on original content and authorship.
Award criteria
Submitted applications will be assessed by assigning points out of a total of 100, based on the below criteria and scores. To be considered for award, applications must pass the following thresholds:
at least 60 out of the total 100 points, and
at least half of the maximum points in each of the three award criteria categories below
Relevance (maximum score: 20 points)
The extent to which:
the applicant’s profile, experience, activities and target population of learners are relevant for the field of adult education
the project proposal is relevant for the objectives of the action
the proposal is relevant for the respect and promotion of shared EU values, such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, as well as fighting any sort of discrimination
the project proposal is relevant for the following specific priorities:
­supporting newcomers and less experienced organisations
­supporting participants with fewer opportunities
Quality of project design (maximum score: 50 points)
The extent to which:
the proposed project objectives address the needs of the applicant organisation, its staff and learners in a clear and concrete way
the proposed activities are appropriate for the achievement of the project objectives
the operational and logistical aspects of the project design (such as proposed venues) are appropriate and cost-effective
the project incorporates environmentally sustainable and responsible practices
the project incorporates the use of digital tools (particularly EPALE) and learning methods to complement their physical mobility activities, and to improve the cooperation with hosting partner organisations
Quality of follow-up actions (maximum score: 30 points)
The extent to which:
the applicant has clearly defined the tasks and responsibilities for delivery of activities in accordance with Erasmus quality standards
the applicant has proposed concrete and logical steps to integrate the results of mobility activities in the organisation’s regular work
the applicant has proposed an appropriate way of evaluating the project outcomes
the applicant has proposed concrete and effective steps to make the results of the project known within the applicant organisation, to share the results with other organisations and the public, and to publicly acknowledge the European Union funding
Accredited projects for mobility of learners and staff in adult education
Organisations holding an Erasmus accreditation in adult education can apply for funding as part of a special funding strand open only for them. Applications are based on the previously approved Erasmus Plan, so a detailed list and description of the planned activities is not required. Instead, the applications focus on estimating the budget needed for the next set of activities.
Eligibility criteria
Eligible organisations: who can apply?
Applicants must hold a valid Erasmus accreditation in adult education on the project start date.
Mobility consortium
Organisations holding an Erasmus accreditation for mobility consortium coordinators must apply for the mobility consortium format.
List of mobility consortium members must be provided as part of the application and must include at least one member organisation in addition to the coordinator.
Any organisation meeting the eligibility criteria for Erasmus accreditation in the same field can become a member of a mobility consortium
 8
. All planned consortium member organisations must be from the same EU member state or a third country associated to the Programme as the mobility consortium coordinator. The relationship between the consortium coordinator and the consortium members must be based on a cooperative, non-profit basis.
Consortium members do not need to have an Erasmus accreditation.
Organisations taking part in a mobility consortium can apply for funding in a maximum of two Key Action 1 applications in the field of adult education under the same Call for proposals. Therefore, within the field of adult education, organisations that apply for a grant for a short-term project or an accredited project can additionally take part in only one application for a mobility consortium as member organisations. Other organisations can take part in up to two mobility consortium applications.
Where to apply?
Applications are submitted to the National Agency of the country where the applicant organisation is established.
Application deadline
19 February at 12:00:00 (midday Brussels time)
Project start date
1 June of the same year
Project duration
All accredited projects will have an initial duration of 15 months. If justified, beneficiaries can request a prolongation of their project to a total duration of 24 months. Prolongations will be made after 12 months of implementation, unless otherwise decided by the National Agency.
Number of applications
   Accredited organisations may apply only once per selection round.
Available activities
All types of activities for adult education. For a detailed list and rules, see section ’Activities’.
To be eligible, applications must include at least one staff or learner mobility activity.
Project scope
The number of participants that can be included in accredited projects is not limited, apart from any limitations defined at the budget allocation stage.
Supporting organisation
A supporting organisation is an organisation assisting the beneficiary organisation in practical aspects of project implementation that do not concern core project tasks. Core project tasks include financial management of the programme funds, contact with the National Agency, reporting on implemented activities, as well as all decisions that directly affect the content, quality and results of the implemented activities (such as the choice of activity type, duration, and the hosting organisation, definition and evaluation of learning outcomes), etc. Involvement of a supporting organisation is subject to approval of the National Agency.
The role and obligations of supporting organisations must be formally defined between them and the beneficiary organisation. The supporting organisation acts under the supervision of the beneficiary organisation, who remains ultimately responsible for the results and quality of implemented activities. All contributions of supporting organisations must comply with the Erasmus quality standards. 
In case of poor implementation of quality standards or other form of failure to comply with these requirements, the National Agency may request that the beneficiary stop receiving assistance for certain tasks and implements them itself. If the beneficiary does not comply, the National Agency may terminate the grant agreement.  
Hosting organisations that provide learning content and mentoring to the beneficiary organisation’s participants are not considered supporting organisations, unless they are at the same time supporting the beneficiary in other project management tasks that are normally performed by the sending organisation. 
Budget allocation
The quality of the applicant’s Erasmus Plan has been assessed at the accreditation application stage and therefore no qualitative assessment will take place at budget allocation stage. All eligible grant application will receive funding.
The awarded grant amount will depend on a number of elements:
the total budget available for allocation to accredited applicants
the requested activities (including the estimated budget required to implement them)
the basic and maximum grant
the following allocation components: qualitative performance, policy priorities, and geographical balance (if applied by the National Agency)
The budget available for accredited projects and detailed budget allocation rules will be published by the National Agency ahead of the call deadline. Budget allocation rules must respect the principles of fairness, transparency and equal treatment. Indicators and metrics used in budget allocation must be objective, verifiable and their values must be known to the applicants ahead of the call deadline.  
Based on the applicable unit contributions and historical data, the National Agency will estimate the budget required to implement the activities requested by each applicant. Applicants cannot be awarded a grant higher than the resulting estimated budget.  
If an applicant is awarded the full estimated budget required to implement their requested activities, then the activities requested in the application will be included in the project grant agreement as targets for delivery. Otherwise, if the applicant is not awarded the full estimated budget, then the targets for delivery will be adjusted to stay proportional to the awarded grant
 9
.
Budget for cost categories ‘Inclusion support for participants’ and ‘Exceptional costs’ cannot be estimated in the same way as budget for cost categories applying unit contributions. The National Agency will assess requests for these types of costs separately, based on provided description and justification. During project implementation, beneficiaries can make further requests for these types of costs when needed. The National Agency will process such additional requests in order of reception, as long as funds remain available.
What are the funding rules?
The following funding rules will apply for short-term projects and accredited projects for mobility of learners and staff in adult education.
Erasmus+ projects are independent funded based on the co-financing principle. Accordingly, the unit costs defined in the table below are calculated to cover 80% of actual costs on average. Projects can include participants whose entire grant or a part of it is funded from sources other than Erasmsus+. For any individual participant, the beneficiary can request funding for all eligible budget categories or only some of them if the rest of the costs are covered in a different way. Funds received from Erasmus+ can be supplemented by the beneficiary organisation, by other EU funds, donations, participant contributions, third party contributions, etc. Principle of no double funding must be respected (see Part C). In case the beneficiary requests participant contributions, they must remain in line with the relevant provisions of Erasmus quality standards. In particular, such contributions must not create barriers to inclusion of participants with fewer opportunities.
Budget category - Organisational support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs directly linked to the implementation of the project that are not covered by other cost categories.  
For example: preparation (pedagogical, intercultural and other), mentoring, monitoring and support of participants during mobility, services, tools and equipment needed for project implementation, virtual components in blended activities, recognition of learning outcomes, sharing results and making the European Union funding visible to the public.
Organisational support covers the costs incurred by both sending and hosting organisations (except in the case of staff mobility for courses and training). The division of the received grant will be agreed between the two organisations.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of participants. Accompanying persons are not participants in learning mobility activities and are not counted for calculation of Organisational support.
Amount
100 EUR
Per participant in staff mobility for courses and training
Per invited expert
Per hosted teacher or educator in training
125 EUR
Per learner group mobility.
350 EUR; 200 EUR after one hundred participants in the same type of activity
­Per participant in short-term learning mobility of adult learners
­Per participant in staff mobility for job shadowing and teaching or training assignments
500 EUR per participant in long-term learning mobility of adult learners
Budget category - Travel
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Contribution to the return travel costs of participants and accompanying persons from their place of origin to the venue of the activity.
Below 500 km, participant will, as a general rule, travel with low-emissions means of transport.
Over 500 KM, participants are strongly encouraged to use a combination of different modes of transport to make their travel more sustainable.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the travel distance and number of participants and accompanying persons.
The applicant must indicate the one-way air distance between the place of origin and the venue of the activity
 10
 by using the distance calculator supported by the European Commission.
Travel distanceGreen travelNon-Green travel
10 – 99 km56 EUR28 EUR
100 – 499 km285 EUR211 EUR
500 – 1999 km417 EUR309 EUR
2000 – 2999 km535 EUR395 EUR
3000 – 3999 km785 EUR580 EUR
4000 – 7999 km1188 EUR1188 EUR
8000 km or more1735 EUR1735 EUR
Budget category - Individual support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs of subsistence for participants and accompanying persons
 11
  during the activity.
If necessary, subsistence costs are eligible for travel time before and after the activity, with a maximum of two travel days for participants and accompanying persons receiving non-green travel grant, and a maximum of six travel days in case of a green travel grant.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of persons, duration of stay and receiving country
 12
Amount
Category of participantsCountry group 1Country group 2Country group 3
Staff107 - 191 EUR95 - 169 EUR84 - 148 EUR
Learners48 - 127 EUR41 - 110 EUR36 - 93 EUR
The above are the allowed ranges for base rates per day of activity. Within these ranges, each National Agency will decide on the exact base rates for projects under their management and will publish this information on its website.
The base rate is payable up to the 14th day of activity, (including travel days). From the 15th day, the payable rate will be equal to 70% of the base rate. Payable rates will be rounded to the nearest whole Euro.
Budget category - Inclusion support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Inclusion support for organisations: Costs related to the organisation of mobility activities for participants with fewer opportunities.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of participants with fewer opportunities.
Amount
125 EUR per participant
Inclusion support for participants: Additional costs directly linked to participants with fewer opportunities and their accompanying persons (including justified costs related to travel and subsistence if a grant for these participants is not requested through budget categories "Travel" and "Individual support"). Inclusion support can also be provided to staff with fewer opportunities taking on the role of accompanying persons or participating in a preparatory visit.
Financing mechanism: real costs.
Rule of allocation: the request must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency.
Amount
100% of eligible costs
Budget category - Preparatory visits
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs covering travel and subsistence for participation in a preparatory visit.
Financing mechanism: unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of participants.
Amount
680 EUR per participant
Budget category - Course fees
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs covering enrolment fees for staff mobility format ‘Courses and training'
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the duration of the course.
Amount
80 EUR per participant per day
Budget category - Linguistic support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs of providing language learning materials and training to participants who need to improve the knowledge of the language they will use to study or receive training during their activity.
Linguistic support is eligible for participants in the following types of activities: job shadowing, teaching and training assignments, hosting teachers and educators in training, short-term mobility of adult learners and long-term learning mobility of adult learners.
Support is payable only if the participant cannot receive Online Language Support due to unavailability of the required language or level, or due to particular barriers faced by participants with fewer opportunities.  The above conditions do not apply to reinforced support provided for participants in long-term learning mobility of adult learners.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of participants.
Amount
150 EUR per participant
In addition: 150 EUR of reinforced language support per participant in long-term learning mobility of adult learners.
Budget category - Exceptional costs
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs for providing a financial guarantee, if the National Agency asks for it.
Expensive travel costs of participants and their accompanying persons that cannot be supported with the standard “Travel” grant due to geographical remoteness or other barriers. If awarded, the exceptional costs for expensive travel replace the travel support based on unit costs.
Visa and visa-related costs, residence permits, vaccinations, medical certifications.
Financing mechanism: real costs
Rule of allocation: the request must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency. Expensive travel applies in cases where the travel support based on unit cost does not cover 70% of the travel costs of participants.
Amount
Costs for financial guarantee: 80% of eligible costs
Expensive travel costs: 80% of eligible travel costs
Visa and visa-related costs, residence permits, vaccinations, medical certifications: 100% of eligible costs
Footnote
 Short cross-border trips are permitted when relevant for the activity, however for the purpose of grant calculation this will not be considered as a change of the country of venue If consecutive activities are organised in different countries, each activity must meet all relevant eligibility criteria on its own.
 ↩ back
 The definition of eligible adult education programmes and activities in each EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme will be defined by the competent National Authority and published on the website of the relevant National Agency. Education staff (teachers, trainers, educators, youth staff, etc.) or other employed adults are not considered to be adult learners in the context of this eligibility criterion unless they are at the same time participating as learners in a specific adult education programme or activity that is included in the above-mentioned definition by the competent National Authority. Adult education staff can participate in staff mobility activities described earlier in this section. Similarly, education staff working in other fields of education, training, youth and sport can participate in Erasmus+ mobility activities for staff, as described in the relevant sections of this Programme Guide.
 ↩ back
 Short cross-border trips are permitted when relevant for the activity, however for the purpose of grant calculation this will not be considered as a change of the country of venue. If consecutive activities are organised in different countries, each activity must meet all relevant eligibility criteria on its own.
 ↩ back
 Seats of the Institutions of the European Union are Brussels, Frankfurt, Luxembourg and Strasbourg. Activities at the EU seats will be considered as a transnational mobility if participants from at least two countries are participating in the activity together. In that case funding (as described in section ‘What are the funding rules?’) can be requested for all participants, regardless of their country of origin. See a list of EU institutions
 ↩ back
 Recent graduates are eligible to participate up to 12 months after their graduation. In case the participants have been fulfilling obligatory civil or military service after graduation, the period of eligibility will be extended by the duration of the service.
 ↩ back
 The definition of eligible organisations in each EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme will be defined by the competent National Authority and published on the website of the relevant National Agency together with relevant examples.
 ↩ back
 Without prejudice to definitions established by the competent National Authority, please note that organisations providing vocational education and training to adult learners are typically considered to be vocational education and training providers, and not adult education providers. For further information, please consult the applicable definitions on the website of your National Agency.
 ↩ back
 For contracting purposes, consortium members may be co-beneficiaries, affiliated entities or third parties receiving financial support. Support to third parties can be provided based on the requirements set out in the Erasmus quality standards for eligible activities and eligible participants defined for this action, up to a maximum amount of 60 000 Euro per recipient organisation. Consortium members that are legally part of the same entity as the consortium coordinator may benefit from the project grant, and will not be considered as co-beneficiaries, affiliated entities or third parties for legal purposes.  
The decision on the contractual structure of each mobility consortium project will be made by the National Agency based on the status and formal links of the consortium coordinator and consortium members in the national legal framework. In all cases, the participating consortium members must be listed in the project application and the project grant agreement as part of the project description.
 ↩ back
 The National Agency can make limited modifications to the proportional adjustment to allow for a better fit between the awarded grant and target activities, to ensure coherence with the approved Erasmus Plan, to provide adequate support for priority activities, to maintain at least one participant in each activity type and category requested by the applicant, and to comply with the rules of the call.
 ↩ back
 For example, if a person from Madrid (Spain) is taking part in an activity taking place in Rome (Italy), the applicant will  calculate the distance from Madrid to Rome (1365,28 KM) and then select the applicable travel distance band (i.e. between 500 and 1999 km).
 ↩ back
   In case of accompanying persons, the rates for staff apply. In exceptional cases, where the accompanying person needs to stay abroad for more than 60 days, extra subsistence costs beyond the 60th day will be supported under the budget heading "Inclusion support".
 ↩ back
Receiving country groups:
Country group 1: Austria, Belgium, France, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, SwedenCountry group 2: Cyprus, Czechia, Estonia, , Greece, Latvia, Malta, , Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, SpainCountry group 3: Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, , Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Serbia,  North Macedonia, Turkiye
 ↩ back
 Tagged in: 
 Adult education
Download:
 You can print and download this page in PDF format 
 You can also download the full guide here 
 Previous
 Next
Mobility for pupils and staff in school education
Mobility for learners and staff in vocational education and training
Mobility of staff in the field of sport
Mobility projects for higher education students and staff
Mobility projects for young people - “Youth Exchanges”