
--- Sayfa 1 ---
202 6   ERASMUS+ 
Guide for Experts 
on 
Quality Assessment 
Actions managed by 
National Agencies 
Version   1   ( 2026 ):   22 - 12 - 202 5

--- Sayfa 2 ---
EUROPEAN COMMISSION 
Directorate - General for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture 
European Commission 
B - 1049 Brussels 
© European Union, 202 5 , version   1 . 
Reuse is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
The reuse policy of European Commission documents is regulated by Decision 2011/833/EU (OJ L 330, 
14.12.2011, p. 39). 
For any use or reproduction of photos or other material that is not under the EU copyright, permission must be 
sought directly from the copyright holders. 
EUROPEAN COMMISSION

--- Sayfa 3 ---
ERASMUS+   202 6 
Guide for Experts on 
Quality Assessment 
For actions managed by National Agencies 
Directorate - General for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture 
2026-v1   Erasmus +   EN

--- Sayfa 4 ---
4 
Table of Contents 
1. Introduction   .............................................................................................. 5 
2. Experts   .................................................................................................... 5 
2.1 Role of experts   ................................................................................... 5 
2.2 Appointment of experts, code of conduct and prevention of conflict of interest 
.............................................................................................................. 6 
2.3 Personal data considerations   ................................................................ 7 
3. Assessment of applications   ......................................................................... 8 
3.1 Preparation for assessment   .................................................................. 8 
3.2 Assessment   ........................................................................................ 8 
3.3 Award criteria and scoring   .................................................................... 9 
4. General principles of qualitative assessment   ................................................12 
4.1 Consolidated assessment and final score   ...............................................12 
4.2 Proportionality   ...................................................................................12 
4.3 Quality, cost - efficiency, value for money of the activities   ........................13 
5. Guidance on how to assess the award criteria   ..............................................13 
Key Action 1: Mobility of individuals   ...........................................................16 
Mobility project for Higher education students and staff supported by   external 
policy funds ........................................................................................16 
Short - term projects for mobility of learners and staff in vocational education 
and training (VET), school education, and adult education   .......................18 
Mobility project for young people: Youth Exchanges   ................................21 
Mobility project for youth workers .........................................................26 
Youth participation activities   .................................................................32 
Mobility project for young people: DiscoverEU Inclusion Action   .................38 
Mobility of staff in the field of sport   .......................................................42 
Key Action 2: Partnerships for Cooperation   .................................................45 
Cooperation Partnerships   .....................................................................45 
Small-scale Partnerships ......................................................................58 
European Partnerships for School Development   ......................................65 
How to assess the cost - effectiveness of the project?   ...............................70 
6. Reference policy documents   .......................................................................72 
Transversal policy priorities for education, training, youth and sport   ..............72 
Policy priorities in school education   ............................................................75 
Policy priorities in vocational education and training (VET)   ............................79 
Policy priorities in higher education   ............................................................81 
Policy priorities in adult education   ..............................................................81 
Policy priorities in the field of youth   ...........................................................82 
Annex I   -   Declaration on absence of conflict of interests and of confidentiality   .....84

--- Sayfa 5 ---
5 
1. Introduction 
A   large   part   of   the   Erasmus+   Programme   is   implemented   under   the   indirect 
management mode. This means that National Agencies are in charge of selecting 
projects to be   co - funded and of approving accreditations under actions entrusted to 
them by the European Commission. National Agencies assess proposals 1   with the 
assistance of independent experts to ensure that only those of the highest quality 
are selected and that only applicants fulfilling specified criteria   are awarded   a grant 
or   accreditation   2   .   As   such,   the   final   decision   on   the   selection   or   rejection   of 
applications is taken by the National Agencies. 
This Guide for Experts   (hereinafter ‘the Guide’)   is a tool for experts when assessing 
applications submitted to the National Agencies. It provides instructions and guidance 
in order to ensure a standardised and high - quality assessment of applications. 
Th is   Guide provides information on: 
•   the role and appointment of experts; 
•   the principles of the assessment; 
•   the assessment process in practice; 
•   how to assess the award criteria for each action and field. 
2. Experts 
2.1 Role of experts 
The assessment and selection of grant applications is organised based on a peer 
review system following a transparent process that guarantees impartiality and equal 
treatment of all applicants. 
The role of experts is important to ensure a fair, impartial, consistent and accurate 
assessment of applications according to the objectives and policy priorities of the 
concerned action and field, as well as the criteria set out in the calls for proposals . 
The assessment is an essential part of the selection procedure. Based on the experts' 
assessment, applications per action and per field   are   ranked in quality order. The 
ranking   list serves as a basis for the National Agency to take the grant award decision, 
following the proposal of the Evaluation Committee. 
Based on the experts' comments, the National Agency shall provide feedback to the 
applicants on the quality of their application in order to ensure transparency and help 
non - selected applicants improve their possible future applications (cf. section 4). 
Eligibility is checked by the National Agencies. If an expert identifies an eligibility 
issue   (e.g.   number   of   participants   involved,   type   of   project   or/and   activities, 
1   Please note that the terms "proposal" and "application" are used interchangeably in this Guide. 
2   Please note that in case of Erasmus accreditations in the fields of school education, vocational education 
and training, adult education and youth, additional documents will complement the information presented 
in this Guide. The additional information wi ll be published on the website of the National Agencies closer 
to the relevant submission deadline.

--- Sayfa 6 ---
6 
implementation period) he/she has to inform the respective National Agency, before 
finalising the assessment. 
2.2 Appointment of experts, code of conduct and prevention of 
conflict of interest 
Experts are appointed based on their skills and knowledge in the fields of education, 
training ,   youth   and   sport   in which they are asked to assess applications. 
It is encouraged   that National Agencies   also include   in their pool of independent 
experts , professionals   with expertise in the inclusion and diversity field. 
To ensure their independence, the names of the experts are not made public. Experts 
are required to perform the assessment to the highest professional standards and 
within the deadline agreed with the National Agency. 
Through the appointment by the National Agency, experts are bound to a code of 
conduct   as   set   out   in   the   appointment   letter   or   contract   with   the   expert.   All 
information   related to the assessment process is strictly confidential. Therefore, 
experts are not   allowed to disclose any information about the applications submitted 
and results of the assessment and selection to the public. 
Depending   on   the   action   and   the   level   of   grant   requested,   the   assessment   of 
applications will be undertaken by minimum one expert, which can be either internal 
or external to the National Agency. Experts can also be appointed from another   EU 
Member State   or   third countr y   associated to the   Erasmus+   Programme   than the one 
of the National Agency. 
Experts must not be in a situation of a conflict of interest 3   in relation to the proposals 
on which they are requested to give their opinion. To this end, they must sign a 
declaration provided by the National Agency that no such conflict of interest exists 
and that they undertake to inform the National Agency should   such conflict arise (cf. 
template   in   Annex   I   to   this   Guide).   The   same   declaration   binds   experts   to 
confidentiality. 
Persons   involved   in   an   application   for   the   action   and   selection   round   under 
assessment are considered as being in a situation of a conflict of interest for that 
selection round and will not be appointed experts. 
When a potential conflict of interest is reported by the expert or brought to the 
attention of the National Agency by any means, the National Agency will consider the 
circumstances and decide either to exclude the expert from the assessment of the 
given ap plication or the whole selection round or allow the expert to take part in the 
assessment, depending on the objective elements of information at its disposal. 
3   Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 September 
2024 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (recast),   OJ L, 2024/2509, 
ELI:   http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj   ( EU Financial Regulation ),   Art icle   61   (3 ) :   ‘ …   a 
conflict of interests   exists where the impartial and objective exercise of the functions of a financial 
actor or other person… is compromised for reasons involving family, emotional life, political or national 
affinity, economic interest or any other direct or indirect persona l interest ’ .

--- Sayfa 7 ---
7 
2.3 Personal data considerations 
Applications or reports may contain personal data. Experts should assume that some 
personal data will be included when they receive a body of work from the National 
Agency. Therefore, before accessing or downloading data provided by the National 
Agency,   ex perts   should   apply   data   protection   principles   concerning   purpose 
limitation,   security,   confidentiality,   data   minimisation,   data   retention   and 
responsibility. 
Experts should protect any computers, tablets, laptops or mobiles with a strong 
password.   Experts   should   consider   encryption   if   the   system   allows   it   and   other 
security settings, for example, remote locking or remote wiping of the device.   Data 
should be st ored locally, not in the cloud or other remote locations. However, if 
remote   storage   is   the   only   option   available,   experts   should   use   virtual   private 
network   (VPN)   connections   with   solid   encryption   via   servers   located   in   EU/EEA 
countries. 
Data should not be transmitted by email to the expert's private email address, and 
experts should reduce the use of USB storage devices to the absolute minimum. 
When   accessing   European   Commission   tools,   such   as   Erasmus+   and   European 
Solidarity page or Assessment Module, experts are required to log in with their EU 
Login name and password. The EU Login name and password must not be shared or 
reused from other perso ns. The EU Login name is a unique identification of the expert, 
and authentication and authorisation mechanisms will link all expert actions in the 
European Commission tools with this EU Login. Therefore ,   the EU Login details should 
be protected, memorised   and not written down. 
When working on a portable device, such as a laptop, tablet or mobile, extra care 
should be taken when leaving the device unattended. The device should be locked in 
a safe location when not used, even at home. 
An Internet connection via cable or protected WIFI network should be used when 
transmitting   data   to   the   device.   We   do   not   advise   using   WIFI   connections   in 
restaurants, cafes or other public locations. When working in public places, experts 
should consider   the surroundings and avoid situations where other people may see 
data or documents provided by the National Agency on their devices. 
The expert's computer, laptop, tablet, or any other device should have all the latest 
security patches and fixes installed. Use of well - known anti - virus software is strongly 
advised. The use of screen recording software is not recommended. Extra care shoul d 
be taken when using screen readers. 
When working from home, experts should apply the confidentiality rules and avoid 
showing the work to family members or other persons. 
Experts should use personal data only to assess the applications or reports, and data 
should be handed over or destroyed soon after the expert's work is concluded. The 
deletion, if applicable, should be permanent and not reversible.

--- Sayfa 8 ---
8 
In   case   of   a   suspicion   of   a   breach   of   personal   data   protection,   experts   must 
immediately inform the National Agency and provide any information allowing the 
National Agency to assess the situation and take the necessary steps to secure the 
rights and freed oms of the affected data subjects. The National Agency must inform 
the European Commission within 48 hours after being told by the expert about the 
incident. 
3. Assessment of applications 
3.1 Preparation for assessment 
Before the start of the assessment, the experts need to be briefed by the National 
Agency on the Programme and the action under assessment, as well as on the 
assessment process and procedures. 
Experts will be provided with the reference documents for the assessment and with 
access   to   the   online   evaluation   tool   where   they   perform   the   assessment   using 
standardised quality assessment forms. 
Before starting the assessment of applications, experts must: 
•   have a sound knowledge of the   Erasmus+ Programme Guide   which provides 
all necessary information to potential applicants on the Programme in general 
and on the actions for which they can apply for a grant; 
•   acquire an in - depth knowledge of the action concerned, its objectives, and the 
policy priorities that apply. For specific guidance on policy priorities, experts 
are referred also to the documents listed in section 6 of this Guide; 
•   have   an   in - depth   understanding   of   the   award   criteria   applicable   to   the 
applications under assessment (cf. section 3.3); 
•   know the content and structure of the application form; 
•   be familiar with all the reference documents and tools provided by the National 
Agency; 
•   have EU Login account created and access to the IT tools of the European 
Commission configured by the National Agency. 
Experts have to read the whole application carefully before completing the quality 
assessment form. It is recommended to read several applications before assessing 
any one of them in full: this allows experts to benchmark answers in different sections 
of t he applications. 
Each expert works individually and independently, gives scores and comments for 
each criterion and summarises his/her assessment in the quality assessment form 
in the language specified by the National Agency. 
3.2 Assessment 
The standard quality assessment forms are established by the European Commission 
and used in order to ensure a coherent assessment of applications. 
When assessing, experts have to: 
•   Participate in the briefing organised by the National Agency;

--- Sayfa 9 ---
9 
•   Use the specialised IT tools provided by the European Commission with access 
granted by the National Agency; 
•   Liaise with the National Agency for any issues related to the use of the IT tools 
provided by the European Commission; 
•   Examine the issues to be considered under each award criterion; 
•   Enter scores for each applicable criterion and provide comments on each 
criterion and on the application as a whole (cf. section 3.3); 
•   Fill in the section on ‘typology questions’ (a set of yes/no questions that 
concern specific details of the application); 
•   Validate the individual assessment; 
•   Consolidate the individual assessments if more than one assessor is involved 
per application; 
•   Approve each consolidated assessment where the expert in question is not 
the consolidator. 
3.3 Award criteria and scoring 
Experts assess applications only against the award criteria defined in   the   Erasmus+ 
Programme Guide . 
Each award criterion is defined through several elements ,   which must be taken into 
account   by   experts   when   analysing   an   application.   These   elements   form   an 
exhaustive list of points to be considered before giving a score for the given criterion. 
These elements are intended to help experts arrive at the final ass essment of the 
criterion in question; however, they must not be scored separately. In order to give 
clear guidance to experts on how individual elements of analysis should be assessed, 
further inform ation is provided in section 5 of this Guide. 
When assessing applications against award criteria, experts make a judgement on 
the extent to which applications meet the defined criteria. This judgement must be 
based   on   the   information   provided   in   the   application.   Experts   cannot   assume 
information that   is not explicitly provided. Information relevant for a specific award 
criterion may appear in different parts of the application and experts must take all of 
it into account when scoring the award criterion. 
Experts are in no case allowed to contact applicants directly. In case of any problems 
arising during the assessment, experts should contact the National Agency. The 
National   Agency   will   decide   whether   the   applicant   needs   to   provide   additional 
information   or clarifications, or if the application should be assessed in the form it 
has been submitted. 
Experts must duly consider the type of project, the scale of the activities and the 
grant requested when analysing the applications. As projects may vary widely in 
terms   of   their   size,   complexity,   experience   and   capacity   of   the   participating 
organisations,   whether they are more process -   or result - oriented etc., experts have 
to apply the proportionality principle when assessing all award criteria, as indicated 
in section 5.

--- Sayfa 10 ---
10 
An application can receive a   maximum of 100 points   for all criteria relevant for the 
action. 
Experts assess the application based on the given award criteria and score each 
criterion with maxima as defined in the Programme Guide. The total number of points 
out of a maximum of 100 for each application is the sum of scores given for each 
award crite rion. Experts cannot use half points or decimals when assigning scores. 
In   order   to   be   considered   for   funding   an   application   has   to   score   at   least   the 
minimum total   score   specified in the Programm e   Guide for a given action, and   at 
least half of the maximum points for each award criterion. 
Within the maximum number of points per award criterion, ranges of scores are 
defined that correspond to a fixed definition of the expected quality standard so that 
a coherent approach is implemented across experts and across countries.   These
standards are as follows: 
•   Very good   –   the application addresses all relevant aspects of the criterion in 
question   convincingly   and   successfully.   The   answer   provides   all   the 
information   and   evidence needed   and   there   are   no   concerns   or   areas   of 
weakness. 
•   Good   –   the application addresses the criterion well, although some small 
improvements could be made. The answer gives clear information on all or 
nearly all of the evidence needed. 
•   Fair   –   the application broadly addresses the criterion, but there are some 
weaknesses.   The   answer   gives   some   relevant   information,   but   there   are 
several areas where detail is lacking or the information is unclear. 
•   Weak   –   the application fails to address the criterion or cannot be judged due 
to   missing   or   incomplete   information.   The   answer   does   not   address   the 
question asked, or gives very little relevant information. 
The table below shows the ranges of scores for the individual quality standards 
depending   on   the   maximum   score   that   can   be   awarded   to   the   relevant   award 
criterion. 
Maximum 
score for a 
criterion   Range of scores 
Very good   Good   Fair   Weak 
50   43-50   34-42   25-33   0-24 
40   34-40   28- 33   20-27   0-19 
35   30-35   24-29   18-23   0-17 
30   26-30   21-25   15-20   0-14 
25   22-25   18-21   13-17   0-12

--- Sayfa 11 ---
11 
20   17-20   14-16   10-13   0-9 
15   14-15   11-13   8-10   0-7 
Experts   are   expected   to   give   comments   on   each   award   criterion   and,   in   their 
comments, refer explicitly to the elements of analysis under the relevant criterion. 
The comments on each award criterion have to reflect and justify the score given for 
it . 
At the end of the assessment, experts give   a summary of   evaluation of   the application 
as a   whole. In   this summary ,   experts must   provide a   thorough analysis of the 
application highlighting its relative strengths and weaknesses and indicating what 
improvements could   be made   in the future in case of failed proposals . 
As   th is   evaluation   summary   will be used by National Agencies to provide feedback to 
applicants,   and   justification   for   rejection   decisions,   experts   must   pay   particular 
attention to clarity, consistency and appropriate level of detail. 
As part of the quality assessment, experts check the grant application for accuracy 
and consistency. In particular, they analyse the coherence of the grant request in 
relation to the proposed activities and results. In case the application is of sufficient 
quality to receive a grant but such coherence is missing, experts can suggest a 
reduction of the grant amount requested 4 , specifying clearly the grant items and the 
reasons why they are considered incoherent, disproportionate or excessive. However, 
it is the National Agency that ultimately decides on the grant amount that is awarded 
to successful applicants. Experts may not   suggest a higher grant than the amount 
requested by the applicant. 
The National Agency monitors the quality of expert assessments and can require the 
expert to revise the assessment should the necessary quality standard not be met. 
Experts must assess all applications in full .   However,   depending on the approach 
chosen by the National Agency, the ‘Relevance’ criterion may be assessed first and if 
it scores below the minimum threshold required for funding, the evaluation process 
may be discontinued, and the proposal rejected at this stage. 
If the experts notice during the assessment that the same or similar text appears in 
two or more applications submitted under a given selection round, as well as any 
other   indications   of   possible   double   submissions   or   original   content/authorship 
issues , they must inform the National Agency immediately. 
4   With   the   exception   of   Cooperation   Partnerships ,   Small - scale   Partnership   projects   and   European 
Partnerships for School Development , where the lump sum grant is a fixed amount, and the experts cannot 
propose to downgrade or upgrade a project (i.e. attribute a different lump sum than the one requested by 
the applicant) or to reduce the amount of the fixed lump sum.

--- Sayfa 12 ---
12 
4. General principles of qualitative assessment 
4.1 Consolidated assessment and final score 
In case an application is assessed by only one expert, then that expert’s assessment 
determines the final score and comments. 
In case of applications assessed by two experts, the two individual assessments will 
be consolidated in order to arrive at the final score and comments for the application. 
The final score may not include decimals. 
If the difference between the assessments of the two experts is less than 30 points 
of the total score for the application, one of the two experts is requested to prepare 
a   consolidated   assessment   in   terms   of   scores   and   comments.   The   consolidated 
assessmen t should always take into account the preceding individual assessments 
but the final version may differ in terms of numerical score and comments. The 
consolidation needs to be based on agreement between the two experts and provides 
a final recommendation t o the National Agency on the grant amount to be awarded 
to the applicant. In case the two experts fail to agree on the consolidation, the 
National Agency will decide on the need for an independent assessment by a third 
expert. 
In case there is a difference of 30 points or more in the assessment results of both 
experts, the National Agency will always ask a third expert to undertake an additional 
independent assessment of the application, unless both experts have scored the 
appli cation under the thresholds for acceptance for the given action. The final score 
will then be determined by the two assessments that are closest in terms of their 
overall score and the most extreme assessment will not be taken into account for the 
consolidated assessment. Consolidation of the two closest individual assessments will 
then follow the same rules as explained above. 
The consolidated assessment is considered the final experts’ assessment of a given 
application.   It   means   that   in   case   of   applications   for   a   grant,   the   consolidated 
assessment forms the basis for ranking the application on the list of eligible grant 
applica tions,   while   in   case   of   applications   for   Erasmus   accreditation   for   higher 
education mobility consortia, the evaluation committee determines if the applicant 
will receive the accreditation or not. 
4.2 Proportionality 
To ensure that the Erasmus+ Programme fully reaches its objectives, experts shall 
assess the qualitative level of the planned activities, intended goals, expected impact 
and results of the project in a proportional way, in relation to the size and profile   of 
the applicant organisations and, if applicable, project partners. Quantity (of activities 
planned, of priorities met or results produced, etc.) will not be judged in absolute 
terms but in relation to the capacities and potential of the applicants (and p artners, 
where applicable).

--- Sayfa 13 ---
13 
4.3 Quality, cost - efficiency, value for money 
The funding rules of Erasmus+   Key A ction   1   managed by National Agencies are 
largely based on unit costs (i.e. amounts are calculated per day, per participant , 
etc.). Experts may judge that some of the units indicated in an application form are 
not to be considered, even for projects deserving a high qualitative scoring. They 
may therefore propose a reduction of these units, which consequently will determine 
a re duction of the grant awarded by the NA, if the project is selected for funding. 
This approach app lies to all actions of the Programme managed by National Agencies, 
with   the   exception   of   Small - scale   Partnerships ,   Cooperation   Partnerships   and 
European   Partnerships for   School   Development   (Key Action 2)   where t he   funding 
rules are based on   a single   and fixed   lump sum   amount . If the assessment of   a   Key 
Action 2   proposal shows that   a proposal’s   cost - effectiveness is not adequate, there 
is no possibility to "downgrade" or   “upgrade”   it   to a lower or higher lump sum 
amount.   This   means that the   proposal will   not achieve the minimum score under the 
a ward criterion ‘Quality of the project design and implementation’   and   it   will have to 
be rejected . 
5.   Guidance on how to assess the   award criteria 
In addition to   the general principles described in chapter 4 of this Guide, this section 
provide s   explanation how to assess the award criteria   for specific   Erasmus+ actions : 
Key Action 1: Mobility of individuals 
•   Mobility project for Higher education students and staff supported by external 
policy funds 
•   Mobility project for School education pupils and staff 
•   Mobility project for VET learners and staff 
•   Mobility project for Adult education learners and staff 
•   Mobility project for young people –   Youth Exchanges 
•   Mobility projects for youth workers 
•   Youth Participation Activities 
•   DiscoverEU Inclusion Action 
•   Mobility of staff in the field of sport 
Key Action 2: Cooperation among organisations and institutions 
•   Cooperation Partnerships 
•   Small-scale Partnerships 
•   European   Partnerships for   School   Development 
Priorities applying to all Erasmus+ sectors and actions 
The four Erasmus+ Programme priorities apply to all sectors and actions and should 
be understood as both   thematic focus points, and as overarching principles of project 
design. Applicants can indicate the priorities they are working on by selecting the 
rel evant ones directly (in Key Action 2), and by selecting linked topics and activity 
formats.   Experts   should   take   into   account   the   overall   integration   of   the   four 
programme priorities in project proposals, and should assess the potential of project 
proposals   to become best practice examples under each of them:

--- Sayfa 14 ---
14 
•   Inclusion and diversity 
Projects should promote social inclusion and aim at improving the outreach to 
people with fewer opportunities. When designing their projects and activities, 
organisations should have an inclusive approach, addressing barriers that hinder 
the   participation   of   a   diverse   range   of   participants,   including   people   with 
disabilities and people with a migrant background, as well as people living in rural 
and remote areas, people facing socio - economic difficulties or any other potential 
source of discrimination based   on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, 
disability, age or sexual orientation. 
Projects should contribute to the creation of inclusive environments that foster 
equity and equality, and that are responsive to the needs of the wider community. 
When assessing the inclusion dimension, experts should duly consider any extra 
support needed   to work with these specific target groups. 
•   Environment and fight against climate change: 
Projects should aim at raising awareness about environmental and climate   change 
challenges. Experts will take into consideration if the project aims at developing 
competences   in   various   sustainability - relevant   sectors,   striving   for   carbon - 
neutrality by promoting sustainable transport modes and including other green 
practices in   their activities. 
Experts should be attentive at proposed innovative practices that will enable 
behavioral changes for individual preferences, cultural values and awareness for 
sustainable development, consumption habits, and lifestyles (e.g. save resources, 
reduce energy u se and waste, compensate carbon footprint   emissions, opt for 
sustainable food and mobility choices, etc.). 
•   Addressing   digital   transformation   through   development   of   digital 
readiness, resilience and capacity: 
Projects   should   aim   to   increase   the   capacity   and   readiness   of   institutions, 
organisations, staff and learners to manage an effective shift towards digital 
education and youth work. Experts should take into account the purposeful use 
of digital technologies   to carry out the projects, the development of digital skills 
and expertise in the use of digital tools for teachers, youth workers and learners, 
and the creation or innovative use of digital education content. 
•   Participation in democratic life: 
Experts should consider if projects address the   challenges and barriers that limit 
citizens’ participation in its democratic processes and   contribute to their increased 
awareness and understanding of   the European Union,   supporting participants in 
overcom ing   the   difficulties   in   actively   engaging   and   participating   in   their 
communities or in the Union's political and social life. 
Projects supporting this priority should aim to promote active citizenship and 
ethics in lifelong learning,   reinforce participatory and citizenship competences,

--- Sayfa 15 ---
15 
foster the development   or improvement   of social and intercultural competences, 
critical thinking and media literacy. 
People’s   participation   in   democratic   life,   social   and   civic   engagement   can   be 
promoted through   meaningful   formal or non - formal learning   experiences . This 
priority focuses also on awareness - raising and understanding of the European 
Union context, notably as regards the common EU values 5 , the principles of unity 
and diversity, as well as their cultural identity, cultural awareness and their social 
and historical heritage. 
5   EU values are set out in Article 2 of the Treaty of European Union   and briefly defined   here: 
https://european - union.europa.eu/principles - countries - history/principles - and - values/aims - and - 
values_en

--- Sayfa 16 ---
16 
Key Action 1: Mobility of individuals 
Mobility project s   for   h igher education students and staff supported by 
external policy funds 
Award criteria   elements   as 
described in the 
Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria 
elements 
Quality of the project design and cooperation arrangements (maximum 40 points), 
Project - level award criterion 
The extent to which the applicant 
organisation describes with clarity the 
responsibilities, roles and tasks 
between partners. 
The   expert   should   assess   the   planned   cooperation 
arrangements, including: 
•   Who offers which courses and when? 
•   Who   provides   support   for 
visa/insurance/accommodation? 
•   Who is in charge for the selection and/or 
evaluation of participants? 
•   What will the students/staff have to do? 
•   If applicable, how the finances will be split 
between the applicant and its partner(s) and 
whether the organisational support grant will be 
shared. 
•   How will communication channels work? 
•   Are there specific provisions regarding the 
organisation of traineeships? 
The extent to which the proposal is 
relevant for the respect and 
promotion of shared EU values, such 
as respect for human dignity, 
freedom, democracy, equality, the 
rule of law and respect for 
human rights, as well as fighting any 
sort of discrimination. 
The   expert should assess   if   the planned activities   align with 
EU   values .   The   following   factors   could   be   taken   into 
consideration during the assessment: 
•   Examine   whether   the   proposal   references   and 
integrates   EU   values   into   its   objectives, 
methodologies, actions and/or expected outcomes. 
A clear articulation   that   the project supports and 
advances these values is an additional strength; 
•   Non - discriminatory   approach:   ensure   that   the 
proposed activities are designed to benefit a diverse 
range   of   participants   and   avoid   any   form   of 
discrimination,   based   on   gender,   ethnicity, 
disability, or any other relevant criteria.   A reference 
to the Erasmus Charter for Higher Education (ECHE) 
also covers this aspect. 
•   Consider the presence of educational components 
that   aim   to   enhance   participants'   understanding 
and appreciation of EU values;

--- Sayfa 17 ---
17 
The completeness and quality of 
arrangements for the selection of 
participants, the support provided to 
them and the recognition of their 
mobility period (in particular in the 
third country not associated to the 
Programme). 
The   expert   should   assess   the   planned   practical 
implementation of the mobilities, in particular: 
•   The   clarity,   completeness   and   quality   of   all   the 
phases of the mobilities (preparation, 
implementation of mobility activities and follow - 
up). 
•   The   appropriateness   of   measures   for   selecting 
participants. Special attention should be given by 
the expert to measures planned by the applicant 
and its partner organisation(s) in accordance with 
the   Inclusion   and   Diversity   Strategy   of   the 
Erasmus+   program me   and   applicable   national 
guidelines. 
•   The information and support provided prior to the 
mobility, e.g. accommodation services, language 
training,   learning/mobility   agreements   and 
administrative support (insurance, visa, etc.). 
•   The   mechanisms   envisaged   for   recognition   of 
student   learning   outcomes   (e.g.   ECTS   or   other 
mechanisms). 
•   The   way   in   which   the   HEIs   will   recognise   and 
reward the outcomes of outgoing staff mobility. 
The   specific   mechanisms   to   guarantee   quality   of 
traineeships when this type of mobility is envisaged. 
Relevance of the strategy (maximum 40 points), Region - level award criterion 
The extent to which the planned 
mobility project is relevant to the 
internationalisation strategy of the 
higher education institutions 
involved. 
The rational e   for choosing staff 
and/or student mobility and the 
previous experience of similar 
projects with higher education 
institutions/organisations in the 
partner region. 
The expert should assess how the planned activities fit the 
applicant   and   partner   institutions’   internationalisation 
strategies and reinforce their capacities. 
The expert should assess the justification provided for the 
choice and volume of activities requested, with respect to 
the internationalisation strategies, capacities and previous 
experience of the institutions involved. 
In   line   with   the   Programme's   inclusion   dimension, 
partnerships with newcomer and less experienced HEIs are 
encouraged,   as   participation   is   expected   to   have   a 
particularly high impact on them. 
Impact and dissemination (maximum 20 points), Region - level award criterion 
The potential impact of the project on 
participants, beneficiaries, partner 
organisations, at local, regional and 
national levels the quality of 
measures aimed at disseminating the 
results of the mobility project at 
faculty and institution levels, and 
beyo nd where applicable, in all 
countries involved. 
The   expert   should   assess   the   potential   impact   and 
dissemination of the project results in terms of: 
•   The potential impact of the mobility on individuals 
and HEIs, at local, regional and national level during 
and after the project lifetime in proportion of the 
project size and scope. 
•   The   dissemination   activities   described   and   the 
channels mentioned. 
•   The   strategy   for   monitoring   and   evaluating   the 
outcomes of the mobility.

--- Sayfa 18 ---
18 
Short - term projects for mobility of learners and staff in vocational 
education and training (VET), school education, and adult education 
Award criteria   elements   as 
described in the 
Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria 
elements 
Relevance (maximum 20 points) 
The extent to which the applicant’s 
profile, experience, activities and 
target population of learners are 
relevant for the field 
T he expert should consider if the applicant organisation 
forms a genuine part of the field in which the application 
has been submitted. Th is   element does not concern only 
the formal or nominal relevance   but is rather linked to 
practice as evidenced by the expertise of its staff and the 
nature   of   the   organisation’s   everyday   activities   and 
previous experience, especially outside of the Erasmus+ 
programme. 
In case of education providers, the ‘target population of 
learners’ refers to the profiles of learners enrolled in the 
organisation.   For   other   organisations   (e.g.   education 
authorities   or   coordination   bodies),   the   same   term 
encompasses   the   categories   of   le arners   for   which   the 
organisation   is   in   charge,   or   for   which   it   is   providing 
services. 
The extent to which the project 
proposal is relevant for the objectives 
of the action 
The expert should assess if   the objectives of the action as 
stated in the action’s chapter in the Programme Guide   are 
addressed . The objectives and overall framework of each 
project should be complementary with those objectives. 
Considering the limited scope of short - term Key Action 1 
projects, the expert should pay particular attention to the 
principle of proportionality when ass essing this element. 
The extent to which the proposal is 
relevant for the respect and 
promotion of shared EU values, such 
as respect for human dignity, 
freedom, democracy, equality, the 
rule of law and respect for human 
rights, as well as fighting any sort of 
discrimination. 
The   expert should assess   if   the planned activities align with 
EU values .   The   following   factors   could   be   taken   into 
consideration during the assessment: 
•   Examine   whether   the   proposal   references   and 
integrates   EU   values   into   its   objectives, 
methodologies, acti vities   and   expected outcomes. A 
clear   articulation   that   the   project   supports   and 
advances   these   values   would   be   an   additional 
strength; 
•   E nsure that the proposed activities are designed   in 
a non - discriminatory approach   to benefit a diverse 
range   of   participants   and   avoid   any   form   of 
discrimination,   based   on   gender,   ethnicity, 
disability, or any other relevant criteria.   ; 
•   Consider the presence of educational components 
that   aim   to   enhance   participants'   understanding 
and appreciation of EU values;

--- Sayfa 19 ---
19 
The extent to which the project 
proposal is relevant for the following 
specific priorities: 
•   Supporting   newcomers 
and   less   experienced 
organisations 
This   element   highlights   the   importance   of   short - term 
projects as a steppingstone into the Erasmus+ programme 
for organisations that have never regularly benefitted from 
the same action in the past.   In this direction, the expert 
should assess the extent to which the proposal outlines a 
plan or intention to reach out to organisations, groups of 
people   or   individuals   who   have   never   or   not   regularly 
benefitted from the opportunities offered by this actio n in 
the past. 
The exact definitions of   ‘ newcomers ’   and   ‘ less experienced 
organisations ’   are   provided   in   the   glossary   of   the 
Programme Guide. 
The extent to which the project 
proposal is relevant for the following 
specific priorities: 
•   Supporting participants with 
fewer opportunities 
•   Supporting participants in 
ErasmusPro activities (in 
VET) 
•   Supporting participants in 
long - term mobility of pupils 
(in school education) 
In line with the inclusion dimension of the Programme, this 
element highlights the importance of involving participants 
with fewer opportunities in project activities. The expert 
should consider if   the proposed activities (if any) and   the 
applicant organisation   ha ve   used the opportunities they 
have to involve this target group (e.g. when defining the 
way participants will be selected). 
In the fields of VET and   school education, the expert should 
also take into account if the applicant organisation has 
committed to implementing long - term mobility activities 
for   learners,   which   constitute   more   challenging   and 
impactful formats offered by the   Programme. 
In   the   field   of   adult   education,   the   expert   must   pay 
particular attention that the project proposal includes an 
inclusive   and   balanced   mix   of   participant   profiles,   with 
significant   involvement   of   participants   with   fewer 
opportunities,   in   line   with   the   objectives   of   the   action. 
Significant   involvemen t   of   participants   with   fewer 
opportunities   can   be   quantitative   (by   involving   a   large 
proportion of participants in this profile), or qualitative (by 
designing   activities   that   give   particular   attention   to 
inclusion, integration and support of participants w ith fewer 
opportunities). 
Quality of project design (maximum   5 0 points) 
The extent to which the proposed 
project objectives address the needs 
of the applicant organisation, its staff 
and 
learners in a clear and concrete way 
The expert should consider if the proposed objectives are 
well explained in relation to the organisation’s needs and 
challenges, and if achieving those objectives can lead to 
positive changes at the level of the organisation. In doing 
so, the objectives sh ould address the needs of staff and 
learners at a wider scale, as opposed to only benefitting 
participants who directly take part in mobility activities. 
The extent to which   the operational 
and logistical aspects of the project 
design (such as proposed venues) are 
appropriate and cost - effective; 
T he expert should   consider if the   plans proposed by the 
applicant   are   appropriate   in   terms   of   their   cost   and 
purpose . F or example ,   if costly venues are proposed, the 
expert should evaluate if those venues are necessary or 
could be replaced by other, less   costly options   without a 
negative effect on the project in terms of its objectives, 
inclusion, or other relevant aspects .

--- Sayfa 20 ---
20 
The extent to which the proposed 
activities   are appropriate for the 
achievement of the project objectives 
T he   expert   should   judge   whether   the   applicant   has 
explained   convincingly   how   the   implementation   of 
proposed activities will logically lead to the achievement of 
the project’s stated objectives. 
The extent to which the project 
incorporates environmentally 
sustainable and responsible practices 
The expert should consider   both the content of the project’s 
activities and objectives, as well as the practical aspect of 
maximising the use of funding opportunities offered by the 
Programme to support environmentally sustainable means 
of travel. 
The extent to which the project 
incorporates the use of digital tools 
(particularly eTwinning for   school 
education and   iVET ,   and EPALE for 
cVET   and adult education )   and 
learning methods to complement 
their physical mobility activities, and 
to improve the cooperation with 
partner organisations 
The expert should consider   both the number of participants 
that will benefit from blended forms of activities, as well as 
the   concrete   ways   in   which   digital   tools   and   learning 
methods are included in the proposed activities. 
Quality of follow - up actions (maximum 30 points) 
The extent to which the applicant has 
clearly defined the tasks and 
responsibilities for delivery of 
activities in accordance with Erasmus 
quality standards 
This   element   refers   to   the   distribution   of   tasks   and 
responsibilities among the staff members of the applicant 
organisation. The expert should assess if all relevant tasks 
have been covered and clearly assigned. 
The extent to which the applicant has 
proposed concrete and logical steps 
to integrate the results of mobility 
activities in the organisation’s regular 
work 
Considering the proposed activities and project objectives, 
the expert should judge how specific, clear and effective 
are the applicant’s proposals for integrating the achieved 
results in their daily work. 
The extent to which the applicant has 
proposed an appropriate way 
of evaluating the project outcomes 
This element covers the applicant’s planning on how to 
evaluate if the expected benefits of the proposed activities 
have been achieved. With regards to project objectives, the 
element   refers   to   the   applicant’s   proposal   on   how   to 
evaluate if the stated obje ctives have been reached. The 
expert should consider whether the proposed methods are 
clear and whether the defined success criteria are clearly 
observable/measurable. 
The extent to which the applicant has 
proposed concrete and effective steps 
to make the results of the project 
known within the applicant 
organisation, to share the results 
with other organisations and the 
public, and to publicly acknowledge 
the European U nion funding 
The   expert   should   consider   how   concrete,   innovative, 
impactful and long - lasting the proposed actions are. The 
expert   should   also   consider   whether   the   applicant 
organisation has used all possibilities at their disposal to 
make sure that results of the proje ct and knowledge about 
the   Erasmus+   programme   are   spread   as   widely   as 
possible.

--- Sayfa 21 ---
21 
Mobility project s   for young people: Youth Exchanges 
Award criteria   elements   as 
described in the 
Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   criteria   elements   for 
youth 
Relevance, rationale and impact 
(maximum score 30 points) 
The extent to which the applicant’s 
profile, experience, activities and 
target group(s) are relevant for the 
field of youth . 
T he expert should consider if the applicant organisation 
forms a genuine part of the field in which the application 
has been submitted (youth). The element does not 
concern only the formal or nominal relevance, but is rather 
linked to practice as evidenced   by the expertise of its staff 
and/or other persons to be involved and the nature of the 
organisation’s everyday activities and previous experience, 
especially outside of the Erasmus+ programme. 
The extent to which the project will 
address one or more of the priorities 
of the EU Youth Dialogue or the 
Youth Goals . 
The expert should consider the relevance of the proposal in 
relation to contributing to the achievement of priorities of 
the EU Youth Dialogue, or the 11 EU Youth Goals 
developed in the context of the Youth Dialogue and the 
European Youth Strategy 2019 - 202 7. 
The extent to which the project is 
suitable for contributing to the 
inclusion and diversity, green, digital 
and participatory dimensions of the 
Programme . 
The expert should   assess   how the project plans to address 
the priorities of the Programme, as they are described in 
the first section of the Programme Guide (chapter 
“Priorities of the Programme”) and in the relevant 
strategies. 
The extent to which the project is 
relevant for the objectives of the 
Action . 
Th e expert should assess if the proposal addresses   the 
objectives of the   A ction as stated in the action’s chapter 
in the Programme Guide. The objectives and overall 
framework of each project should be complementary with 
those objectives and address them in a qualitative way. 
The   extent to which   the   proposal is 
relevant for   the   respect and 
promotion of shared EU values, such 
as respect for human dignity, 
freedom, democracy, equality, the 
rule of law and respect for 
human rights, as well as fighting any 
sort of discrimination. 
The   expert should assess   if   the planned activities align with 
EU values .   The following factors should be taken into 
consideration during the assessment: 
•   Examine whether the proposal references and 
integrates EU values into its objectives, 
methodologies, activities and expected outcomes. 
A clear articulation of   how the project   supports and 
advances these values would be an additional 
strength . 
•   Ensure that the proposed activities are designed in 
a   non - discriminatory approach to benefit   a   diverse 
range of   participants . Look for evidence of 
proposed measures to address any form of 
discrimination, based on gender, ethnicity, 
disability, or any other   relevant   criteria. 
•   Consider the presence of educational components 
that aim to enhance participants' understanding 
and appreciation of EU values . 
•   Assess how   opportunities for learning about and 
experiencing   EU values   are   integrated across 
different project components. Projects that embed

--- Sayfa 22 ---
22 
these values into various activities rather than 
treating them as standalone elements are likely to 
have a more significant impact . 
The extent to which the project and 
the proposed activities address the 
needs of the participating 
organisations and participants of the 
exchange . 
The   expert should assess if the   rationale for the project   is 
clearly described. The   expert should assess if the 
applicant explain s   why the project is needed and how the 
demand for the project has been identified. The   expert 
should evaluate if the   project is relevant to the needs of 
the individual participants, the community that the 
project is addressing (if relevant), and a specific target 
group if there is one. 
The   extent   to   which   the   project   is 
suitable   for   producing   high - quality 
learning   outcomes   for   the 
participants . 
The expert should consider whether the learning 
outcomes are clearly defined in line with the identified 
needs and whether they are achievable through the 
proposed activities. 
The   extent   to   which   the   project   is 
likely   to   have   an   impact   for 
participants   and   participating 
organisations,   during and after the 
project   lifetime   and   outside   the 
organisations and individuals   directly 
participating in the project, at local, 
regional, national and/or European or 
global level . 
Th e expert should assess if   the project is framed with a 
long - term perspective, aiming at a long - lasting impact on 
the   participants and organisations   directly   involved and   as 
well   as   others   ( where   relevant   also   on 
communities/practices) . 
The   extent   to   which   the   project 
introduces   newcomers   and   less 
experienced   organisations   to   the 
Action . 
The expert should assess the extent to which the proposal 
outlines a plan or intention   to   reach out to organisations 
and   groups   of   young   people   who   have   never   or   not 
regularly benefitted from the opportunities offered by this 
action in the past. 
The   definitions   of   newcomers   and   less   experienced 
organisations   and of groups of young people   are provided 
in the glossary of the Programme Guide. 
Quality of the project design and implementation 
(maximum score 40 points) 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposal 
describes in a clear and convincing 
manner   the   preparation, 
implementation   and   follow - up 
phases   of   the   project:   and   the 
involvement of young people in all 
phases . 
The   expert should consider whether the   description of the 
different phases is clear and complete and shows that the 
participating   organisations   have   planned   the   division   of 
tasks,   activity   programme,   working   methods,   practical 
arrangements, involvement of participants and follow up 
measures   satisfactorily .   The expert should also   take into 
account the extent to which young people are involved in 
the   conception   of   the   project   and   in   preparation, 
implementation and follow - up stages. 
The   extent   to   which   the balanced 
representation   of   participants   in 
terms   of   countries   and gender   is 
respected   and   the   activities   are 
designed   in   an   accessible   and 
inclusive   way   and   are   open   to 
participants   with   diverse 
backgrounds and abilities . 
In line with the inclusion dimension of the Programme, this 
element highlights the importance of involving participants 
with fewer opportunities in project activities. The expert 
should   consider   how   organisations   have   designed   the 
proposed activities   in an accessible and inclusive way.   The 
expert   should also consider if the applicant organisations 
have   used   the   opportunities   they   have   to   involve 
participants with diverse backgrounds and abilities   (e.g.

--- Sayfa 23 ---
23 
when   defining   the   way   participants   will   be   selected). 
Furthermore, the Programme strives for geographical and 
gender   balance.   The   expert   should   take   this   angle   into 
consideration   when   assessing   the   composition   of   the 
groups of participants   involved in the project. 
The extent to which the activities 
incorporate sustainable and 
environmental - friendly practices . 
Th e expert should consider   the content of the project’s 
activities and objectives, as well as   the practical aspect of 
maximising the use of funding opportunities offered by 
the Programme to support environmentally sustainable 
means of travel. 
The extent to which the proposed 
learning methods, including any 
online/ digital components, are 
appropriate for the activities and 
include a reflection process to 
identify and document the 
participants’ learning outcomes and 
use the European transparency   and 
recognition tools, in particular 
Youthpass . 
The   expert   should   look   at   the   non - formal   and   informal 
learning processes proposed,   consider to which   extent such 
processes   are   suitable   for   stimulating   creativity,   active 
participation and initiative in the participants. The methods 
chosen   should   be   adapted   to   the   target   group   of   the 
activities   and   facilitate   the   acquisition/ 
development   of   competences   resulting   in   the   personal, 
socio - educational   and   professional   development   of   all 
participants.   The expert should also take into consideration 
if such learning processes are planned in a participative way 
and analysed throughout the project. Experts should also 
look at the concrete ways in which digital tools and virtual 
components are included in the proposed activities and will 
be used to suppo rt the learning methods and complement 
physical activities. 
The expert should assess   how participating organisations 
have   addressed   the   issue   of   the   participant s’ s   learning 
objectives, how they plan to support the reflection around 
those,   as well as   the identification   and recognition   of the 
participants’   learning outcomes. It is to be considered as an 
element   of   quality   of   the   project   if   the   participating 
organisations,   beyond   making   available   the   Youthpass 
certificate   to   participants,   intend   to   use   the   Youthpass 
process   and   tool   to   stimulate   participants '   reflectio n   on 
their learning process . 
Quality of project management 
(maximum score 30 points) 
The   extent   to   which   the   practical 
arrangements,   management   and   support 
modalities   are satisfactory . 
The expert should consider   all aspects related to 
project   management   and   the   quality   of   the 
measures   in   place   to   ensure   effective 
implementation of the project in all its phases. 
The extent to which the measures to ensure 
safety   and   protection   of   participants   are 
adequate and effective . 
Th e expert should assess how the project plans to 
address   the   issue   of   protection   and   safety   of 
participants, and which measures are in place to 
prevent   and   reduce   risks.   Activities   must   be 
organised   with   a   high   standard   of   safety   and 
protection   for   involved   participants.   The   expert 
should also look for the presence of   accompanying 
people,   that   will support the young people with 
fewer   opportunities ,   should   such   individuals   be 
present . 
The   extent   to   which   the   tasks   and 
responsibilities for the activities are clearly 
The expert should assess if all relevant tasks   and 
responsibilities   have   been   covered   and   clearly 
assigned   and   distributed   among   the   persons 
implementing the project .

--- Sayfa 24 ---
24 
defined in accordance with Erasmus quality 
standards . 
The   extent   to   which   the   plan   for   the 
cooperation   and   communication   between 
the   participating   organisations ,   as   well   as 
with other relevant stakeholders   provides a 
supporting framework for the management 
of the project . 
The   expert shall assess the extent to which the 
proposal   show s   that   participating   organisations 
have   established   and   will   run   a   cohesive 
consortium (if relevant) with active involvement of 
all   partners   and   with   common   goals   to   be 
achieved. 
The   expert will consider the   following factors during 
the assessment: 
-   the   level of networking, cooperation and 
commitment of each participating 
organisation in the project . 
-   the   means   of   communication   and 
cooperation (including use of digital tools ) . 
-   the profile and background of participating 
organisations when the nature or target of 
the   activity   would   necessitate   the 
possession   of   certain   qualifications   or 
activities   in   certain   areas   (e.g.   youth 
work); 
-   a clear and commonly agreed definition of 
roles   and   tasks   of   each   participating 
organisation involved in the project; 
-   the capacity of the consortium to ensure 
effective   follow - up   and   dissemination   of 
the results achieved through the project; 
-   in case of inclusion projects, the capacity 
and expertise of the consortium to support 
(where   needed)   staff   or   learners   with 
special needs or fewer opportunities . 
The   extent   to   which   the   applicant   has 
proposed an appropriate way of evaluating 
the   different phases and outcomes of the 
project   in relation to its objectives 
The expert shall assess the extent to which   the 
participating organisations have put in place 
measures to evaluate the   different phases of the 
project and to carry out a final evaluation of the 
activities and their   outcomes. 
The expert shall verify that t he proposal foresees 
a   final   evaluation   that   will   make   it   possible   to 
assess   whether   the   objectives   of   the 
activities/project   have   been   achieved   and   the 
expectations of the participating organisations and 
participants have been met. Besides plans for such 
a   final   evaluation,   the   proposal   should 
demonstrate   that participating organisations will 
monitor   the   implementation   of   the   project 
activities   to   ensure   the   smooth   running   of   the 
project and fine - tuning, if necessary.

--- Sayfa 25 ---
25 
The   extent   to   which   the   applicant   has 
proposed   an   appropriate   way   of 
disseminating project outcomes within and 
outside the participating organisations. 
The   expert   shall   consider   how   the   participating 
organisations have (together, if relevant) reflected 
on measures aimed at enhancing the visibility of 
their project   and   the   visibility of the   Erasmus+ 
Programme in general.   The expert should   assess 
also how each participating organisation will put in 
place   measures   to   disseminate   and   exploit   the 
results   of   the   project,   including   its   learning 
outcomes for the benefit of all actors involved. 
The extent to which the project incorporates 
measures   aimed   at   making   its   results 
sustainable beyond the project’s lifetime. 
T he expert should   assess   the extent to which the 
project incorporates mechanisms and/or activities 
or develops practices that have the potential to 
survive the duration of the funding (i.e.   remain 
operational   even   after the   initial   lifetime   of   the 
project has expired).

--- Sayfa 26 ---
26 
Mobility project s   for youth workers 
Award criteria   elements   as 
described in the 
Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria 
elements   for youth 
Relevance, rationale and impact
(maximum score 30 points) 
The extent to which   t he applicant’s 
profile, experience and activities 
are relevant to the youth work field . 
T he expert should consider if the applicant organisation 
forms a genuine part of the field in which the application 
has been submitted (youth). The element does not 
concern only the formal or nominal   relevance but   is rather 
linked to practice as evidenced by the expertise of its staff 
and/or other persons to be involved and the nature of the 
organisation’s everyday activities and previous 
experience, especially outside of the Erasmus+ 
programme. 
The extent to which the project will 
address one or more of the priorities 
of the EU Youth Dialogue or the 
Youth Goals . 
The expert should consider the relevance of the proposal 
in relation to contributing to the achievement of 
priorities of the EU Youth Dialogue, or the 11 EU Youth 
Goals developed in the context of the Youth Dialogue 
and the European Youth Strategy 2019 - 202 7. 
The extent to which the project is 
suitable for contributing to the 
inclusion and diversity, green, digital 
and participatory dimensions of the 
Programme . 
The expert should look at how the project plans to address 
the priorities of the Programme, as they are described in 
the   first   section   of   the   Programme   Guide   (chapter 
“Priorities   of   the   Programme”)   and   in   the   relevant 
strategies. 
The extent to which   the project 
proposal is relevant for the 
objectives of the Action . 
Th e expert will assess the   references   in the proposal to 
the   objectives   of   the   Action   as   stated   in   the   action’s 
chapter   in   the   Programme   Guide.   The   objectives   and 
overall   framework   of   each   project   should   be 
complementary with those objectives and   the proposal 
should   address them in a qualitative way.

--- Sayfa 27 ---
27 
The extent to which the proposal is 
relevant for the respect and 
promotion of shared EU values, such 
as respect for human dignity, 
freedom, democracy, equality, the 
rule of law and respect for 
human rights, as well as fighting any 
sort of discrimination. 
The expert should assess   if   the planned activities align 
with   EU values.   The following factors should be taken into 
consideration during the assessment: 
•   Examine whether the proposal references and 
integrates EU values into its objectives, 
methodologies, activities and expected outcomes. 
A clear articulation of how the project supports 
and advances these values would be an additional 
strength . 
•   Ensure that the proposed activities are designed 
in a non - discriminatory approach to benefit a 
diverse range of participants. Look for evidence of 
proposed measures to address any form of 
discrimination, based on gender, ethnicity, 
disability, or any other   relevant criteria. 
•   Consider the presence of educational components 
that aim to enhance participants' understanding 
and appreciation of EU values . 
•   Assess how   opportunities   for learning about and 
experiencing   EU values   are   integrated across 
different project components. Projects that embed 
these values into various activities rather than 
treating them as standalone elements are likely to 
have a more significant impact . 
The extent to which   the project and 
the proposed activities address the 
needs   of   development   of   the 
participating   youth   workers   and 
youth work organisations . 
The expert should assess t he rationale for the project   and 
verify that it is   clearly described.   In this direction, the 
expert should look for explanations on   why the project is 
needed ,   how the demand for the project has been 
identified   and   how   it   is relevant to the needs of the 
individual participants, the community that the project is 
addressing (if relevant), and a specific target group if 
there is one.

--- Sayfa 28 ---
28 
The extent to which   the project is 
suitable for : 
–   reinforcing or transforming the 
participating organisations’ 
practice, in relation to quality, 
innovation and recognition of 
youth work, as well as their scope, 
from local to global as 
appropriate. 
–   producing high - quality learning 
outcomes for participating youth 
workers . 
–   involving participants active in 
youth work in the participating 
organisations as well as 
organisations who undertake 
concrete youth work and regular 
work with young people on local 
level. 
–   producing impact on participating 
youth workers and participating 
organisations during and after the 
project lifetime. 
–   producing impact outside the 
organisations and on individuals 
not directly participating in the 
project, at local, regional, national 
and/or European or global level. 
The   expert   should   consider   whether   the   learning 
outcomes are clearly defined in line with the identified 
needs   and   whether   they   are   achievable   through   the 
proposed activities. 
The expert should consider   how the project is framed 
with a long - term perspective, aiming at a long - lasting 
impact   on   the   participants   and   organisations   directly 
involved . 
The expert should consider how the project would   equip 
youth workers with competences and methods for their 
professional   development   (including   for   digital   youth 
work), aiming at having a clear impact on their regular 
work with young people and on their organisation they 
are active in, fostering the deve lopment of quality youth 
work at local, national and European level, contributing 
to   the   European   Youth   Work   Agenda   for   quality, 
innovation and recognition of youth work . 
The expert should consider the project’s impact on others 
( where relevant also on communities   and youth work 
practices) . 
The extent to which (if applicable) the 
proposed system development and 
outreach activities are contributing to 
the development of youth work 
environment . 
The expert should, if applicable, consider the expected 
impact of proposed system development and/or outreach 
activities on the youth work environment . 
The extent to which the project 
introduces newcomers and less 
experienced organisations to the 
Action. 
The expert should   assess the extent to which the proposal 
outlines a plan or intention to   reach out to organisations , 
groups of young   people   and   youth   workers   who   have 
never or not regularly benefitted from the opportunities 
offered by this action in the past. 
The   definitions   of   ‘ newcomers ’   and   ‘ less   experienced 
organisations ’   and   of   ‘ groups   of   young   people ’   are 
provided in the glossary of the Programme Guide.

--- Sayfa 29 ---
29 
Quality of the project design and implementation 
(maximum score 40 points) 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposal 
demonstrates a   consistency between 
identified   needs,   project   objectives, 
participant   profiles   and   activities 
proposed . 
The expert should consider if the proposed objectives are 
well explained in relation to the organisation’s needs and 
challenges, and if achieving those objectives can lead to 
positive   changes   at   the   level   of   the   organisation, 
contributing not only to the p articipants' practice, but also 
improving   the   quality   of   youth   work   within   the 
participating organisations. In doing so, the objectives 
should address the needs of staff at a wider scale, as 
opposed to only benefitting participants who directly take 
part i n mobility activities. When considering this element, 
the   expert   should   judge   whether   the   applicant   has 
explained   convincingly   how   the   implementation   of 
proposed activities will logically lead to the achievement 
of the project’s stated objectives. 
The   extent to which   the   proposal 
describes in a clear   and   convincing 
manner   all the phases of the project 
( preparation ,   implementation and 
follow - up ) and the active involvement 
of the participants in all the phases; 
The   expert should consider whether the   description of the 
different phases is clear and complete and shows that the 
participating organisations have planned the division of 
tasks,   activity   programme,   working   methods,   practical 
arrangements, involvement of participants and follow up 
measures   satisfactorily . 
The   extent   to   which   the   balanced 
representation of   participants   in terms 
of countries and gender is respected . 
T he   Programme   strives   for   geographical   and   gender 
balance. The expert should take this into consideration 
when   assessing   the   composition   of   the   groups   of 
participants   involved in the project. 
The   extent to which   the measures for 
selecting youth workers are 
appropriate and in line with youth 
worker definition in legal base 
The expert should   take into consideration   that i n order to 
ensure a wider benefit and impact of the project, it is 
important that a real connection exists between youth 
workers and the local youth work field. 
The extent to which   the activities are 
designed in an accessible and inclusive 
way and are open to participants with 
diverse backgrounds and abilities. 
The expert should look at the non - formal and informal 
learning   processes   proposed,   at   which   extent   such 
processes   are   suitable   of   stimulating   creativity,   active 
participation and initiative in the participants. 
The   methods   chosen   should   be   adapted   to   the   target 
group   of   the   activities   and   facilitate   the 
acquisition/development of competences resulting in the 
personal, socio - educational and professional development 
of   all   participants   and   participating   organisatio ns 
involved.   The   expert   will   assess   also   if   such   learning 
processes are planned in a participative way and analysed 
throughout the project. 
The   extent   to   which   the   activities 
incorporate   sustainable   and 
environmental - friendly practices . 
The   expert   should   consider   both   the   content   of   the 
project’s activities and objectives, as well as   the practical 
aspect   of maximising   the use   of funding   opportunities 
offered   by   the   Programme   to   support   environmentally 
sustainable means of travel. 
The   extent to which   the   proposed 
learning methods, including digital 
tools or virtual components, are 
appropriate for the activities . 
The e xpert should   evaluate how   digital tools and virtual 
components are included in the proposed activities and 
will   be   used   to   support   learning   and   to   complement 
physical activities.

--- Sayfa 30 ---
30 
The   extent to which   the   support 
measures   for reflection process, the 
identification and documentation of 
the participants' learning outcomes, 
and the use of transparency and 
recognition tools, in particular 
Youthpass , are appropriate . 
The   ex pert   should   consider   how   participating 
organisations have addressed   the   participant s’   learning 
objectives, how they plan to support reflection around 
those,   as well as   the identification   and recognition   of the 
participants’   learning outcomes. 
The expert should also   consider as an element of   project 
quality ,   if the participating organisations, beyond making 
available the Youthpass certificate to participants, intend 
to   use   the   Youthpass   process   and   tool   to   stimulate 
participants' reflection on their learning process . 
The   extent to which   ( if applicable)   t he 
tools and practices proposed under 
“system development and outreach 
activities”   are appropriate and   can be 
replicated   and   inspire   other 
organisations . 
The expert should   focus on the design and quality of 
complementary   activities   (if   any)   and   on   their 
replicability.   The   expert   can   consider   the   following 
questions   in   this   regard:   Can   tools   and/or   practices 
proposed be adapted or re - used by other organisations? 
How   do   the organisations plan to make other actors from 
the field aware of such tools and practices and to inspire 
other organisations and processes? 
Quality of project management 
(maximum   s core 30 points) 
The   extent to   which   the   quality of the 
practical arrangements, management 
and support modalities   are satisfying . 
The expert should   assess   all aspects related to project 
management and the quality of the measures in place to 
ensure effective implementation of the project in all its 
phases. 
The   extent   to   which   the   measures 
foreseen   to   ensure   safety   and 
protection of participants are adequat e 
and effective . 
The expert should   focus on the issue of protection and 
safety of participants, on how the project plans to address 
it and on which measures are in place to prevent and 
reduce risks.   The expert should always keep in mind that 
a ctivities must be organised with a high standard of safety 
and protection for involved participants. 
The   extent   to   which   the   tasks   and 
responsibilities are clearly defined for 
the   activities   in   accordance   with 
Erasmus+   q uality   s tandards . 
The expert should consider   the distribution of tasks and 
responsibilities   among   the   persons   implementing   the 
project . The expert should assess if all relevant tasks have 
been covered and clearly assigned. 
The   extent   to   which   t he   plan   for 
cooperation   and   communication 
between   the   participants   of   the 
group(s),   participating organisations, as 
well as with other relevant stakeholders 
provides a supporting framework for 
the management of the project . 
The expert should assess the extent to which t he   proposal 
show s   that participating organisations have established 
and will run a cohesive consortium (if relevant) with active 
involvement of all partners and with common goals to be 
achieved. 
The   expert   should   take   the   following   factors   into 
consideration during the assessment: 
-   the   level   of   networking,   cooperation   and 
commitment of each participating 
organisation in the project . 
-   the   means   of   communication   and   cooperation 
(including use of digital tools) . 
-   the   profile   and   background   of   participating 
organisations when the nature or target of the 
activity   would   necessitate   the   possession   of 
certain qualifications or activities in certain areas 
(e.g. youth work) .

--- Sayfa 31 ---
31 
-   a clear and commonly agreed definition of roles 
and   tasks   of   each   participating   organisation 
involved in the project . 
-   the capacity of the consortium to ensure effective 
follow - up   and   dissemination   of   the   results 
achieved through the project . 
-   in   case   of   inclusion   projects,   the   capacity   and 
expertise   of   the   consortium   to   support   (where 
needed) staff or learners with special needs or 
fewer opportunities . 
The   extent to which the applicant has 
proposed   an   appropriate   way   of 
evaluating   the different phases and 
outcomes of the project   in relation to 
its objectives . 
The expert should verify that t he proposal shows that 
participating organisations have put in place measures to 
evaluate the outcomes   of project activities . 
The expert should also verify that t he   proposal foresees 
a   final evaluation   that   will make it possible to assess 
whether the objectives of the activities/project have been 
achieved   and   the   expectations   of   the   participating 
organisations and participants have been met. Besides 
plans for such a final   evaluation,   the expert should check 
that   the proposal shows that participating organisations 
will monitor the implementation of the   project   activities 
to ensure the   smooth running of the project and fine - 
tuning, if necessary . 
The   extent to which the applicant has 
proposed   an   appropriate   way   of 
disseminating   project   outcomes within 
and   outside   the   participating 
organisations. 
The expert will   assess   how the   participating organisations 
have reflected   together   on measures aimed at enhancing 
the   visibility   of   their   project   and   the   visibility   of   the 
Erasmus+ Programme in general.   The expert should look 
also   at how each   participating   organisation   will   put   in 
place measures to disseminate and exploit the results of 
the project, including its learning outcomes for the benefit 
of all actors involved. 
The   extent   to   which   the   project 
incorporates   measures   aimed   at 
making its results sustainable beyond 
the project’s lifetime. 
The expert should   assess   the extent to which the project 
incorporates   mechanisms and/or   activities   or   develops 
practices that have the potential to survive the duration 
of the funding (i.e.   remain operational even after the 
initial lifetime of the project has expired).

--- Sayfa 32 ---
32 
Youth participation activities 
Award criteria   elements   as 
described in the 
Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria 
elements   for youth 
Relevance, rationale and impact
(maximum score 30 points) 
The extent to which the applicant’s 
profile, exper ience, activities and 
target group(s) are relevant for the 
field of youth 
T he   expert   should   consider   if   the   applicant   organisation 
forms a genuine part of the field in which the application has 
been submitted   (youth) . The element does not concern only 
the   formal   or nominal   relevance, but   is rather linked   to 
practice as evidenced by the expertise of its staff   and/or 
other   persons   to   be   involved   and   the   nature   of   the 
organisation’s everyday activities and previous experience, 
especially outside of the Erasmus+ programme. 
The extent to which the project will 
address one or more of the priorities 
of the EU Youth Dialogue or the Youth 
Goals 
The expert should consider the relevance of the proposal in 
relation to contributing to the achievement of priorities of 
the EU Youth Dialogue, or the 11 EU Youth Goals developed 
in the context of the Youth Dialogue and the European Youth 
Strategy 2019 - 202 7. 
The extent to which the project is 
suitable for contributing to the 
inclusion and diversity, green, digital 
and participatory dimensions of the 
Programme 
The expert should look at how the project plans to address 
the priorities of the Programme, as they are described in the 
first section of the Programme Guide (chapter “Priorities of 
the Programme”) and in the relevant strategies. 
The extent to which the project is 
relevant for the objectives of   the 
Action 
The expert should consider that t h e proposal   references 
the objectives of the   A ction as stated in the action’s 
chapter in the Programme Guide.   The expert should 
ev a luate the extent to which   t he objectives and overall 
framework of each project   is   complementary with those 
objectives and   are   address ed   in a qualitative way.   In 
particular, t he expert should consider how the proposal 
fosters young peoples' engagement and empowers them to 
become active citizens.

--- Sayfa 33 ---
33 
The extent to which the   proposal is 
relevant for   the   respect and 
promotion of shared EU values, such 
as respect for human dignity, 
freedom, democracy, equality, the 
rule of law and respect for 
human rights, as well as fighting any 
sort of discrimination. 
The   expert should assess   if   the planned activities align with 
EU values .   The   following   factors   should   be   taken   into 
consideration during   the   assessment: 
•   T he   proposal references and integrates EU values 
into   its   objectives,   methodologies,   activities   and 
expected outcomes. A clear articulation   of   how the 
project supports and advances these values would 
be an additional strength; 
•   T he   proposed   activities   are   designed   in   a   non - 
discriminatory approach to benefit a diverse range 
of   participants.   Look   for   evidence   of   proposed 
measures   to   address   any   form   of   discrimination, 
based on gender, ethnicity, disability, or any other 
relevant criteria; 
•   T he   presence of educational components that aim to 
enhance   participants'   understanding   and 
appreciation of EU values; 
•   H ow   opportunities   for   learning   about   and 
experiencing   EU   values   are   integrated   across 
different   project   components. Projects that embed 
these   values   into   various   activities   rather   than 
treating them as standalone elements are likely to 
have a more significant impact; 
The   extent to which the project   and 
the proposed   activities address the 
needs of the young people and 
participating organisations 
The expert should assess t he rationale for the project   and 
verify that   it   is   clearly described.   In   this direction, the 
expert will look for   expla nations   why the project is needed , 
how the demand for the project has been identified   and 
how   the project   is relevant to the needs of the individual 
participants, the community that the project is addressing 
(if relevant), and a specific target group if there is one. 
The extent to which the project 
provides   a   European added value 
The expert should consider whether the pro posed activities 
bring added value at EU level through results that would 
not be attained by activities carried out in a single country 
or   through   relevance of proposed activities beyond the 
national   context   (with   regard   to   the   topic s,   aims, 
approaches and expected outcomes). 
The   extent   to   which   the   project   is 
suitable   for   producing   high - quality 
learning outcomes for   the participants 
The expert should consider   whether the learning outcomes 
are clearly defined in line with the identified needs and 
whether   they   are   achievable   through   the   proposed 
activities. 
The   extent to which the project is likely 
to have an   impact   f or   participants and 
participating organisations , as well as 
for young people and   organisations not 
directly participating in the project, at 
local,   regional,   national   and/or 
European   o r glo bal level 
The expert should consider that   the project is framed with 
a long - term perspective, aiming at a long - lasting impact 
on   the   participants and organisations   directly   involved and 
as   well   as   others   ( where   relevant   also   on 
communities/practices) .

--- Sayfa 34 ---
34 
The   extent   to   which   the   project 
introduces   newcomers   and   less 
experienced   organisations   to   the 
Action ,   including   groups   of   young 
people 
The expert should assess the extent to which the proposal 
outlines a plan or intention to   reach out to organisations 
and   groups   of   young   people   who   have   never   or   not 
regularly benefitted from the opportunities offered by this 
action in the past. 
The   definitions   of   ‘ newcomers ’   and   ‘ less   experienced 
organisations ’   and of   ‘ groups of young people ’   are provided 
in the glossary of the Programme Guide. 
Quality of the project design and implementation 
(maximum score 40 points) 
The   extent   to   which   the   pro posal 
demonstrates   consistency   between 
identified   needs,   project   objectives, 
participant   profile s   and   activities 
proposed; 
The expert should consider if the proposed objectives are 
well explained in relation to the organisation’s needs and 
challenges, and if achieving those objectives can lead to 
positive changes at the level of the organisation. In doing 
so, the objectives sh ould address the needs of staff and 
learners at a wider scale, as opposed to only benefitting 
participants who directly take part in the funded activities. 
T he   expert   should   judge   whether   the   applicant   has 
explained convincingly how the implementation of all the 
proposed activities will logically lead to the achievement of 
the project’s stated objectives. 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposal 
describes   in   a   cl ear   and   convincing 
manner   the   preparation, 
implementation and follow - up phases 
of the   project:   and the involvement of 
young people in all phases ; 
The   expert should consider whether the   description of the 
different phases is clear and complete and shows that the 
participating   organisations   have   planned   the   division   of 
tasks,   activity   programme,   working   methods,   practical 
arrangements, involvement of participants and follow up 
measures   satisfactorily .   T he expe rt should   also   take into 
account the extent to which young people are involved in 
the   conception   of   the   project   and   in   preparation, 
implementation   and   follow - up   stages   ( as   i n   Youth 
participation   activities,   young   people   need   to   have   a 
significant role throughout the project ) . 
The extent to which the activities are 
designed in an accessible and inclusive 
way and are open to participants with 
diverse backgrounds and abilities ; 
In line with the inclusion dimension of the Programme, this 
element highlights the importance of involving participants 
with fewer opportunities in project activities. The expert 
should consider   how organisations have designed   proposed 
activities   in an accessible and inclusive way.   The e xpert 
should   also   consider   if   the   applicant   organisations have 
used the opportunities they have to involve   participants 
with diverse backgrounds and abilities   (e.g. when defining 
the way participants will be selected). 
The   extent   to   which   the   project 
addresses   sustainable   and 
environmental - friendly   practices 
The expert should consider that   the proposal   refers both to 
the content of the project’s activities and objectives, as well 
as to   the practical aspect of maximising the use of funding 
opportunities   offered   by   the   Programme   to   support 
environmentally sustainable means of travel. 
The extent to which the project makes 
use   of   alternative,   innovative   and 
smart forms of youth participation 
The expert should keep in mind that t he Youth participation 
activities format is designed in a particularly open manner 
in order to include a range of methods and approaches to 
youth participation and allow development and testing.   The 
expert   should judge to what extent the project intends to 
incorporate new or alternative ideas, practices or tools for 
youth participation, be it through digital or other formats.

--- Sayfa 35 ---
35 
The   extent to which the proposed 
learning methods, including digital 
tools   or virtual components, are 
appropriate for the activities and 
include a   reflection process   to identify 
and document   the participants’ 
learning outcomes and use the 
European transparency and 
recognition tools, in particular 
Youthpass 
The   expert   should   look   at   the   non - formal   and   informal 
learning processes proposed,   consider to which   extent such 
processes   are   suitable   for   stimulating   creativity,   active 
participation and initiative in the participants. The methods 
chosen   should   be   adapted   to   the   target   group   of   the 
activities   and   facilitate   the   acquisition/development   of 
competences resulting in the personal, socio - educational 
and professional development of all participants.   The expert 
should   also   take   into   consideration   if   such   learning 
processes are planned in a participative way and analysed 
throughout   the   project. Experts should   also   look at   the 
concrete ways in which digital tools and virtual components 
are included in the proposed activities and will be used to 
support   the   learning   methods   and   complement   physical 
activities. 
The expert should assess   how participating organisations 
have   addressed   the   issue   of   the   participant s’ s   learning 
objectives, how they plan to support the reflection around 
those,   as well as   the identification   and recognition   of the 
participants’   learning outcomes. It is to be considered as an 
element   of   quality   of   the   project   if   the   participating 
organisations,   beyond   making   available   the   Youthpass 
certificate   to   participants,   intend   to   use   the   Youthpass 
process and tool to stimulate participants ' reflection on their 
learning process . 
Quality of project management   (maximum 
score 30 points) 
The   extent   to   which   the   practical 
arrangements,   management   and 
support modalities   are satisfactory ; 
The expert should   focus on all aspects related to project 
management and the quality of the measures in place to 
ensure   effective   implementation   of the   project   in all   its 
phases. 
The extent to which the measures to 
ensure   safety   and   protection   of 
participants are adequate and effective 
The   expert   should   focus on   the issue of protection   and 
safety of participants, on how the project plans to address 
it and on which measures are in place to prevent and reduce 
risks. Activities must be organised with a high standard of 
safety and protection for involved part icipants. In addition, 
a sufficient number of accompanying people, if needed, will 
support the young people with fewer opportunities. 
The   extent   to   which   the   tasks   and 
responsibilities are clearly defined for 
the   activities   in   accordance   with 
Erasmus+ quality standards 
The expert should focus on   the distribution of tasks and 
responsibilities   among   the   persons   implementing   the 
project. The expert should assess if all relevant tasks have 
been covered and clearly assigned.

--- Sayfa 36 ---
36 
The   extent to which the plan for   the 
cooperation   and   communication 
between   the   participating 
organisations ,   as   well   as   with   other 
relevant   stakeholders   provides   a 
supporting   framework   for   the 
management of the project ; 
The expert should assess the extent to which t he proposal 
show s   that participating organisations have established and 
will   run   a   cohesive   consortium   (if   relevant)   with   active 
involvement of all partners and with common goals to be 
achieved. 
The expert will take t he following factors into consideration 
during the assessment: 
-   the   level   of   networking,   cooperation   and 
commitment of each participating 
organisation in the project; 
-   the   means   of   communication   and   cooperation 
(including use of digital tools) 
-   the   profile   and   background   of   participating 
organisations   when   the   nature   or   target   of   the 
activity would necessitate the possession of certain 
qualifications   or   activities   in   certain   areas   (e.g. 
youth work); 
-   a clear and commonly agreed definition of roles and 
tasks of each participating organisation involved in 
the project; 
-   the capacity of the consortium to ensure effective 
follow - up and dissemination of the results achieved 
through the project; 
-   in   case   of   inclusion   projects,   the   capacity   and 
expertise   of   the   consortium   to   support   (where 
needed)   staff   or   learners   with   special   needs   or 
fewer opportunities 
In the case of Youth participation activities with no partner 
organisations,   the   expert   should   consider   how   the 
organisation will share tasks and responsibilities internally, 
and the involvement of potential external stakeholders in 
the project. If the pro ject will be supported by one or more 
coaches, the envisaged cooperation and relevance of their 
expertise in relation to the objectives of the project should 
be considered. 
The extent to which the applicant has 
proposed   an   appropriate   way   of 
evaluating   the   project   outcomes   in 
relation to its objectives; 
The expert will verify to what extent t he proposal shows 
that participating organisations have put in place measures 
to evaluate the outcomes of project activities   and that t he 
proposal   foresees   a   final   evaluation   that   will   make   it 
possible   to   assess   whether   the   objectives   of   the 
activities/project have been achieved and the expectations 
of   the   participating   organisations   and   participants   have 
been met. Besides plans for such   a final evaluation,   the 
expert will verify that   the proposal shows that participating 
organisations   will   monitor   the   impl ementation   of   the 
project   activities   to   ensure   the   smooth   running   of   the 
project and fine - tuning, if necessary. 
The extent to which the applicant has 
proposed   an   appropriate   way   of 
disseminating project outcomes within 
and   outside   the   participating 
organisations. 
The expert will   focus on how the participating organisations 
have (together, if relevant) reflected   on measures aimed 
at enhancing the visibility of their project and the visibility 
of the Erasmus+ Programme in general.   The expert should 
look also at how each participat ing organisation will put in 
place measures to disseminate and exploit the results of the

--- Sayfa 37 ---
37 
project, including its learning outcomes for the benefit of all 
actors involved. 
The   extent   to   which   the   project 
incorporates   measures   aimed   at 
making its results sustainable beyond 
the project’s lifetime. 
Th e expert should   assess   the extent to which the project 
incorporates   mechanisms   and/or   activities   or   develops 
practices that have the potential to survive the duration of 
the funding (i.e.   remain operational even after the initial 
lifetime of the project has expired).

--- Sayfa 38 ---
38 
Mobility project for young people: DiscoverEU Inclusion Action 
Award criteria   elements   as 
described in the 
Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria 
elements   for youth 
Relevance,   rationale   and impact
(maximum score 40 points) 
The relevance of the project to: 
-   the objectives of the Action; 
-   the   needs   of   the   participating 
organisations and participants; 
-   the   extent   to   which   the   project 
enables learning through 
discovery; 
The   expert   will   evaluate   to   which   extent   t he   proposal 
corresponds to the objectives and the format of the Action 
as described in the corresponding action chapter in Part B 
of the Programme Guide. 
The expert will assess to what extent t he rationale for the 
project   is   clearly described.   In this direction, the expert will 
look for   expla nations   why the project is needed ,   how the 
demand for the project has been identified   and   how   it   is 
relevant to the needs of the individual participants, the 
community that the project is addressing (if relevant) and 
to the specific target group. 
In   particular   the   expert   should   pay   attention   to   the 
following specific aspects: 
•   the proposal involves as participants exclusively young 
people   with   fewer   opportunities   as   described   in   the 
Erasmus+ Programme Guide and in the Erasmus+ and 
European   Solidarity   Corps   Inclusion   and   Diversity 
Strategy 6 . Their participation in DiscoverEU on an equal 
footing with their peers is vital to contribute to inclusion 
and   diversity   of   young   people   and   to   enable   their 
learning through discovery. 
•   the proposal promotes diversity, intercultural and inter - 
religious   dialogue,   common   values   of   freedom, 
tolerance and respect for human rights as well as aims 
on enhancing critical thinking and sense of initiative of 
young people when preparing them for, ac companying 
them during and following up after their DiscoverEU 
travel 
The   extent   to   which   the   project   is 
relevant   for   the   respect   and 
promotion of shared EU values, such 
as   respect   for   human   dignity, 
freedom,   democracy,   equality,   the 
rule of law and respect for   human 
rights, as well as fighting any sort of 
discrimination. 
The   expert should assess   if   the planned activities align with 
EU values .   The expert should take t he following factor into 
consideration during the assessment: 
-   Examine whether the proposal references and integrates 
EU   values   into   its   objectives,   methodologies,   actions 
and/or expected outcomes. A clear articulation that the 
project   supports   and   advances   these   values   is   an 
additional strength . 
The potential impact of the project 
on   participants   and   participating 
The expert should consider that   the project is framed with 
a long - term perspective, aiming at a long - lasting impact 
both   on   participants   and   organisations   involved   (and, 
6   https://www.salto - youth.net/downloads/4 - 17 - 4177/InclusionAndDiversityStrategy.pdf

--- Sayfa 39 ---
39 
organisations   during   and   after   the 
project lifetime; 
where relevant, on communities/practices) also after the 
end of the project lifetime. 
The extent to which the organisation 
can   proof   previous   experience   in 
working   with   young   people   with 
fewer   opportunities   at   grass   root 
level 
The   expert   should   consider   that   DiscoverEU   Inclusion 
Action is specifically addressed to grass root organisations, 
which   work   regularly   with   young   people   with   fewer 
opportunities and which can identify early enough potential 
participants to prepare them for their DiscoverEU travel. 
The o rganisation has to strike the right balance between 
offering   suitable   assistance   and   encouraging   the   young 
people to as much autonomy as possible . 
The   extent   to   which   the project   is 
suitable   of   contributing   to   the 
inclusion and diversity, green, digital 
and participatory dimensions of the 
Programme 
The expert should look at how the project plans to address 
the priorities of the Programme, as they are described in 
the   first   section   of   the   Programme   Guide   (chapter 
“Priorities   of   the   Programme”)   and   in   the   relevant 
strategies. 
Organisations   implementing   the   DiscoverEU   Inclusion 
Action may foresee elements in the travel itinerary as well 
as in pre -   and after activities, that address at least one of 
the   EU   priorities   on   green,   digital   or   the   participatory 
dimension of the Erasmus+   Programme. Please refer to the 
DiscoverEU routes 7   as an option and inspiration for the 
travel 
The   extent   to   which   the   project 
introduces   newcomers   and   less 
experienced   organisations   to   the 
Erasmus+   Programme   that   can 
prove   experience   in   working   with 
young people with fewer 
opportunities 
The expert should assess the extent to which the proposal 
outlines a plan or intention to   reach out to organisations 
who   have   never   or   not   regularly   benefitted   from   the 
opportunities   offered   by   this   action   in   the   past.   The 
definitions   of   ‘ newcomers ’   and   ‘ less   experienced 
organisations ’   are   provided   in   the   glossary   of   the 
Programme Guide. 
Quality of the project design 
(maximum score 40 points) 
The   proposal   demonstrates   a 
consistency   between   identified 
needs, project objectives, participant 
profiles and activities proposed. 
The expert should consider if the proposed objectives are 
well   explained   in   relation   to   the   participants’   and 
organisation’s needs and challenges, and if achieving   these 
objectives can lead to positive changes at the level of the 
organisation   and   of the   participants . 
The   expert   should   assess   whether   the   applicant   has 
provided   a   convincing   explanation   of   how   the 
implementation of all proposed activities will logically lead 
to achiev ing   the project’s stated objectives. 
The clarity, completeness and quality 
of   all   the   phases   of   the   project: 
preparation   tailored   to   the   specific 
needs   of   the   participants,   support 
during the travel, implementation of 
activities and follow - up; 
The expert should assess to what extent t he description of 
the different phases is clear and complete and shows that 
the   organisation   and   the   DiscoverEU   participants   have 
agreed on a division of tasks, programme of the activities 
during   the   travel,   working   methods,   practical 
arrangements, caterin g for the needs of the participants 
and follow up measures. 
7   https://europa.eu/youth/discovereu/green - routes_en

--- Sayfa 40 ---
40 
The extent to which the participants 
are   involved   in   all   phases   of   the 
activities 
The expert should   focus on how the organisations plan to 
give an active role and involve young participants during 
the project lifetime while giving as much autonomy to the 
participants as possible. 
The   activities   are   designed   in   an 
accessible and inclusive way 
In line with the inclusion dimension of the Programme,   the 
expert should consider how organisations have designed 
proposed activities   in an accessible and inclusive way.   The 
e xperts should also consider if the applicant organisations 
have   used   the   opportunities   they   have   to   involve   this 
target group (e.g. when defining the way participants will 
be   selected),   as   well   as   participants   with   different 
background and abilities. 
In   addition,   the   expert   should   verify   that   the   proposal 
shows that the activities and profiles of the participants fit 
the   action,   engages   the   young   people   with   fewer 
opportunities in all the steps of their DiscoverEU travel 
(before, during and after) and ensure equal footing with 
their DiscoverEU   peers while travelling across Europe 
The   quality   of   arrangements   and 
support   for   the   reflection   process, 
the identification and documentation 
of   the   participants'   learning 
outcome, and the use of 
Youthpass; 
The expert should consider   how the organisations have 
addressed the issue of participant’s learning objectives, 
how they plan to support the reflection around those, their 
identification as well as the recognition of their learning 
outcomes. The fact that   -   beyond making available t he 
Youthpass   certificate   to   participants   -   the   participating 
organisations intend to use the Youthpass process and tool 
to   stimulate   participants'   reflection   on   their   learning 
process   is   considered   as   an   element   of   quality   of   the 
project. 
N.B. the Youthpass for DiscoverEU inclusion action is still 
under   development   and   might   not   be   available   at 
application stage   –   experts are, therefore, invited to assess 
the learning outcomes in a general way until Youthpass for 
the Inclusion Action is imp lemented. 
The   adequacy   and   effectiveness   of 
the   measures   foreseen   to   ensure 
safety and protection of 
participants; 
The expert should   focus on the issue of protection and 
safety of participants, on how the project plans to address 
it   and   on   which   measures are   in   place   to   prevent and 
reduce risks. 
Activities must be organised with a high standard of safety 
and   protection   for   involved   participants.   In   addition,   a 
sufficient number of accompanying people, if needed, will 
support the young people with fewer opportunities. 
The   extent   to   which   the   activities 
incorporate sustainable and 
environmental - friendly practices 
The expert should consider that   the project   refers both to 
the content of the project’s activities and objectives with a 
focus on sustainable and environmental - friendly practices, 
as well as to the practical aspect of maximising the use of 
funding opportunities offered by the Programme to support 
e nvironmentally sustainable means of travel.

--- Sayfa 41 ---
41 
Quality of project management 
(maximum score 20 points) 
The   quality   of   the   practical 
arrangements, management and 
support modalities; 
The expert should   focus on all aspects related to project 
management and the quality of the measures in place to 
ensure effective implementation of the project in all its 
phases. 
The quality of the cooperation and 
communication   with   other   relevant 
stakeholders if applicable; 
The   expert   should   assess to   what   extent   t he   proposal 
show s   that the organisations have established and will run 
a   cohesive   cooperation   with   active   involvement   of   all 
partners   and   with   common   goals   to   be   achieved,   if 
applicable. 
The   expert   should   take   t he   following   factors   into 
consideration during the assessment: 
-   the level of networking, cooperation and commitment of 
the organisation with other relevant stakeholders in the 
project; 
-   the profile and background of organisations when the 
nature or target of the activity would necessitate the 
possession of certain qualifications or activities in certain 
areas; 
-   a clear and commonly agreed definition of roles and 
tasks of each organisation involved in the project, where 
relevant; 
-   the   capacity   to   ensure   effective   follow - up   and 
dissemination   of   the   results   achieved   through   the 
project; 
-   the capacity and expertise of the consortium to support 
(where needed) staff or learners with special needs or 
fewer opportunities. 
The   quality   of   measures   for 
evaluating the different phases and 
outcomes of the project; 
The expert should verify that t he proposal shows that the 
organisations have put in place measures to evaluate the 
different phases of the project and to carry out a final 
evaluation of the activities and their outcomes. 
The   expert   should   examine   to   what   extent   t he   final 
evaluation   will   make   it   possible   to   assess whether the 
objectives of the activities/project have been achieved and 
the   expectations   of   the   participating   organisations   and 
participants have been met.   The expert should also check 
that b esides the final evaluation, the proposal shows that 
participating   organisations   will   monitor   the 
implementation   of the   mobility activities to   ensure   the 
smooth   running   of   the   project   and   fine - tuning,   if 
necessary. 
The appropriateness and quality of 
measures   aimed   at   disseminating 
the outcomes of the project within 
and   outside   the   participating 
organisations. 
The   expert   should   focus   on   the   organisations   have 
reflected on measures aimed at enhancing the visibility of 
their project and the visibility of the Erasmus+ Programme 
in   general.   The   expert   should   look   also,   at   how   the 
organisation will put in place measures to disseminate   and 
exploit the results of the project, including its learning 
outcomes for the benefit of all actors involved.

--- Sayfa 42 ---
42 
Mobility of staff in the field of sport 
Award criteria   elements 
as described in the 
Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria 
elements 
Relevance   and impact   (maximum 30 points) 
The extent to which the 
applicant’s profile, experience and 
activities   are relevant   to the 
grassroots sport 
The expert should consider if the applicant organisation 
forms   a   genuine   part   of   the   grassroots   sport   field. 
Grassroots sport is defined as physical leisure activities 
practised regularly at non - professional level by people of 
all ages for health, educatio n or social purposes. 
The extent to which the project 
proposal is relevant for the 
objectives of the action 
The expert should consider that   the project   references the 
objectives of the action as stated in the action’s chapter in 
the   Programme   Guide.   The   objectives   and   overall 
framework of each project should be   in line   with those 
objectives. Considering the limited scope of short - term 
Key Action 1 projects, the expert should pay particular 
attention to the principle of proportionality when assessing 
this element. 
The extent to which the project 
proposal is relevant for the   needs 
and development of the 
participating organisations and 
staff 
The expert should assess to what extent t he rationale for 
the   project   is   clearly   described.   In   this   direction,   the 
expert should look for   expla nations   why the project is 
needed ,   how   the   demand   for   the   project   has   been 
identified   and   how   it   is   relevant   to   the   needs   of   the 
participating organisations and   the individual participants 
The extent to which the proposal 
is relevant for the respect and 
promotion of shared EU values, 
such as respect for human 
dignity, 
freedom, democracy, equality, 
the rule of law and respect for 
human rights, as well as fighting 
any sort of discrimination. 
The   expert should assess   if   the planned activities align with 
EU values .   The   following   factors   should   be   taken   into 
consideration during the assessment: 
•   Examine   whether   the   proposal   references   and 
integrates   EU   values   into   its   objectives, 
methodologies, activities and expected outcomes. 
A clear articulation of how the project supports 
and advances these values would be an additional 
strength. 
•   Ensure that the proposed activities are designed 
in   a   non - discriminatory   approach   to   benefit   a 
diverse range of participants. Look for evidence of 
proposed   measures   to   address   any   form   of 
discrimination,   based   on   gender,   ethnicity, 
disability, or any other   relevant criteria. 
•   Consider the presence of educational components 
that aim to enhance participants' understanding 
and appreciation of EU values. 
•   Assess how   opportunities for learning about and 
experiencing   EU   values   are   integrated   across 
different project components. Projects that embed 
these   values   into   various   activities   rather   than 
treating them as standalone elements are likely to 
have a more significant impact.

--- Sayfa 43 ---
43 
The extent to which the project is 
suitable for: 
• Producing high - quality learning 
outcomes for   p articipating   staff ; 
•   reinforcing or transforming the 
participating organisations’ 
work practices, increasing its 
quality, capacities and 
innovation 
•   producing potential impact on 
participating organisations 
and staff during and after project 
lifetime 
The expert should verify that t he proposal equips   staff 
with   competences   and   methods   for   their   professional 
development,   aiming at having a clear impact on their 
regular work and on their organisation they are active in . 
Potential   impact   on   transformation   of   participating 
organisations’ work practices is clearly described. 
The extent to which the project 
defines concrete learning 
outcomes 
T he expert should consider if   t he learning outcomes for 
the participants are clearly explained and in line with the 
identified needs.   The proposal comprises the necessary 
measures to facilitate the validation of no n - formal and 
informal learning.   Recommended EU recognition tool for 
sport   staff: Europass. 
The extent to which the project is 
suitable of contributing to the 
inclusion and diversity, green, 
digital and participatory 
dimensions of the Programme; 
The expert should look at how the project plans to address 
the priorities of the Programme, as they are described in 
the   first   section   of   the   Programme   Guide   (chapter 
“Priorities   of   the   Programme”)   and   in   the   relevant 
strategies. 
The extent to which the project 
introduces newcomers and less 
experienced organisations to the 
Action. 
The expert should assess the extent to which the proposal 
outlines a plan or intention to   reach out to organisations 
who   have   never   or   not   regularly   benefitted   from   the 
opportunities offered by the Programme in the past. 
The   definitions   of   ‘newcomers’   and   ‘less   experienced 
organisations’   are   provided   in   the   glossary   of   the 
Programme Guide. 
Quality of project design   and implementation   (maximum 40 points) 
The extent to which the proposed 
project objectives address the 
need s of the applicant 
organisation and   its staff in a 
clear and concrete way 
The expert should consider if the proposed objectives are 
well explained in relation to the organisation’s needs and 
challenges, and if achieving those objectives can lead to 
positive changes at the level of the organisation. In doing 
so, the objectives sh ould address the needs of staff at a 
wider scale, as opposed to only benefitting participants 
who directly take part in mobility activities. 
The quality of practical 
arrangements, management and 
support modalities 
The expert should consider if   the proposal demonstrates 
good   quality   management,   support   and   practical 
arrangements, selection and preparation of participants, 
monitoring   of   activities,   ensuring   the   safety   of 
participants. 
The extent to which the project 
incorporates environmentally 
sustainable and responsible 
practices 
The expert should consider that   the project   refers both to 
the content of the activities and objectives, as well as to 
the   practical   aspect   of   maximising   the   use   of   funding 
opportunities   offered   by   the   Programme   to   support 
environmentally sustainable means of travel.

--- Sayfa 44 ---
44 
The extent to which the project 
incorporates the use of digital 
tools and learning methods to 
complement their physical 
mobility activities, and to improve 
the cooperation with partner 
organisations 
The expert should consider that   the project   refers both to 
the number of participants that will benefit from   virtual 
activities, as well as the concrete ways in which digital 
tools and learning methods are included in the proposed 
activities. 
The extent to which the activities 
are designed in an accessible and 
inclusive way and are open to 
participants with fewer 
opportunities. 
The expert should consider that i n line with the inclusion 
dimension of the Programme, this element highlights the 
importance   of   involving   participants   with   fewer 
opportunities in project activities. 
The   expert   should   consider   whether   the   design   of the 
activities has the potential to increase the participation of 
people with fewer opportunities. This implies whether the 
proposal   acknowledges   the   potential   barriers   that   can 
hinder their participation an d proposes realistic and clear 
actions to increase it. 
Another element to be looked at is whether the project 
target groups of people with fewer opportunities are well 
identified as well as whether the ways to reach out to them 
and engage them are clearly defined 
The balanced representation of 
participants in terms of gender; 
T he expert should   assess   the composition of the group of 
participants i nvolved in the projects   which should be the 
closest   possible   to   ensuring   the   principle   of   gender 
balance. 
For staff from non - grassroot 
organisations, a clear explanation 
how participation of such st a ff will 
benefit grassroot spor t 
I f   the   applicant   organisation   is   a   non - grassroots   sport 
organisation (e . g .   international organisation) the   expert 
should assess if the   proposal   contain s   a clear explanation 
how participation of such staff will benefit grassroots sport 
Quality of follow - up actions (maximum 30 points) 
The extent to which the applicant 
has proposed concrete and logical 
steps to integrate the results of 
mobility activities in the 
organisation’s regular work 
Considering the proposed activities and project objectives, 
the expert   should judge how specific, clear and effective 
are the applicant’s proposals for integrating the achieved 
results in their daily work. 
The extent to which the applicant 
has proposed concrete and 
effective steps to make the 
results of the project known 
within the applicant organisation, 
to share the results with other 
organisations and the public, and 
to publicly acknowledge the 
European U nion funding 
The   expert   should   consider   how   concrete,   innovative, 
impactful and long - lasting the proposed actions are. The 
expert   should   also   consider   whether   the   applicant 
organisation has used all possibilities at their disposal to 
make sure that results of the proje ct and knowledge about 
the   Erasmus+   programme   are   spread   as   widely   as 
possible.

--- Sayfa 45 ---
45 
Key Action 2: Partnerships for Cooperation 
Cooperation Partnerships 
Award criteria   elements   as 
described in the Programme 
Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria   elements 
Relevance
(maximum 25 points) 
The extent to which the proposal 
is   relevant   for   objectives   and 
priorities of the Action. 
T he proposal will be considered as 
highly relevant if: 
-   it   addresses   the   priority 
"inclusion and diversity"; 
-   In   case   of   projects 
managed   by   the   Erasmus+ 
National   Agencies   at 
decentralised   level:   if   it 
addresses   one   or   more 
"European   Priorities   in   the 
national context", as announced 
by the National Agency; 
-   In   case   of   projects 
submitted by ENGOs in the fields 
of education, training and youth 
to the European Education and 
Culture   Executive   Agency:   the 
extent   to   which   the   applicant 
runs activities that support the 
implementation of EU policies in 
one of these s ectors. 
The expert should consider that   the project   references the 
objectives of the action as stated in the action’s chapter in the 
Programme Guide. The objectives and overall framework of 
each project should be complementary with those objectives 
and address them in a qualitative way. 
Each partnership project must address at least one of the 
priorities   of   the   action   (either   of   those   applying   to   all 
Erasmus+ sectors or   field specific ), as indicated in the section 
"Contribution of this action to achieving policy priorities". If the 
project   addresses   a   priority   from   those   applying   to   all 
Erasmus+, the expert should judge whether it clearly proves 
the impact in the field under which the application has been 
submitted. 
In case the project addresses the horizontal priority "Inclusion 
and diversity in all fields of education, training, youth and 
sport",   the expert   will consider   it   as highly relevant to the 
action as it is addressing an area of crucial relevance for the 
Programme as a whole and in the European context. 
If the proposal addresses one or more "European priorities in 
the national context", as announced by the respective National 
Agency, it will be considered as highly relevant to the action 
as it is addressing a European issue of particular importance 
in the   national context. 
NB:   If   the   proposal   does   not   provide   convincing 
evidence that it is relevant to at least one priority, 
the expert must score as "Weak" (score between 
0 - 1 2   points) the award criterion "Relevance of 
the   project"   and   the   whole   project   must   be 
rejected as a consequence.

--- Sayfa 46 ---
46 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposal   is 
relevant for the respect and promotion of 
shared   EU   values, such   as respect   for 
human   dignity,   freedom,   democracy, 
equality, the rule of law and respect for 
human rights, as well as fighting any sort 
of discrimination. 
The   expert should assess   if   the planned activities align 
with   EU values .   The following factors should be taken 
into consideration during the assessment: 
•   Examine   whether   the   proposal   explicitly 
references   and   integrates   EU   values   into   its 
objectives,   methodologies,   activities   and 
expected outcomes. A clear articulation of how 
the project supports and advances these values 
would be an additional strength; 
•   Ensure that the proposed activities are designed 
in a non - discriminatory approach to benefit a 
diverse range of participants. Look for evidence 
of strategies and evaluate proposed measures to 
address any form of discrimination, based on 
gender,   ethnicity,   disability,   or   any   other 
relevant   criteria.   Put   emphasis   on   proactive 
strategies, policies, or actions demonstrating a 
commitment to fostering a non - discriminatory 
environment; 
•   Consider   the   presence   of   educational 
components that aim to enhance participants' 
understanding and appreciation of EU values; 
•   Assess how   opportunities for learning about and 
experiencing   EU   values   are   integrated   across 
different   project   components.   Projects   that 
embed these values into various activities rather 
than treating them as standalone elements are 
likely to have a more significant impact; 
•   Monitoring   and   reporting   mechanisms:   If 
applicable, evaluate their effectiveness related 
to the promotion of EU values. Assess whether 
the project outlines clear indicators and metrics 
to measure this aspect. 
The extent to which the profile, experience 
and   activities   of   the   participating 
organisations are relevant for the field of 
the application . 
The expert should consider if the proposal proves that 
the participating organisations have   already experience 
in the field . .   If the organisations is not active in the 
relevant field/sector, the organisation must prove that 
it brings a clear added value to the project in the context 
of the field in which the application was submitted   In 
the same way, the proposal shows how the area   of 
activity of the participating organisation are related or 
have the potential to be implemented in the field of 
application. 
This   element   does   not   concern   only   the   formal   or 
nominal relevance, but is rather linked to practice as 
evidenced by the expertise of its staff and the nature of 
the   organisation’s   everyday   activities   and   previous 
experience,   especially   outside   of   the   Eras mus+ 
programme. 
The extent to which the proposal is based 
on   a   genuine   and   adequate   needs 
analysis . 
The expert should verify that t he proposal proves that 
a solid analysis, drawing on existing knowledge, know - 
how and practice, has been carried out to identify needs 
of the target group(s), and organisations.

--- Sayfa 47 ---
47 
The   expert   should   also   examine   that   t he   needs 
identified   are   relevant   for   the   field   under   which   the 
proposal was submitted and are clearly linked to those 
priorities of the Action that the project intends to meet. 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposal   is 
suitable   for creating   synergies   between 
different   fields   of   education,   training, 
youth and sport, or it has potentially a 
strong impact on one or more of those 
fields . 
The expert should examine that t he project is likely to 
produce outcomes that may be relevant also for other 
fields of education, training, youth or sport than the field 
that is expected to be most impacted by the project. 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposal   is 
innovative .   The expert should examine that t he project is likely to 
produce results that will be innovative for its field in 
general, or for the geographical context in which the 
project is implemented. The innovative dimension of a 
project   can   relate   to   the   content   of   the   outputs 
produced by the pr oject, and/or to the processes and 
working methods applied, and/or to the organisations 
and persons involved or targeted. For   example,   it will 
produce   something   significantly   new   in   terms   of 
learning   opportunities,   skills   development,   access   to 
information , recognition of learning outcomes etc. 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposal   is 
complementary   to   other   initiatives 
already carried out by the participating 
organisations . 
The expert will examine that t he project will add to the 
existing knowledge, know - how and/or practices of the 
organisations and persons involved. 
AND/OR: 
If   the   application   is   based   on   a   previous   project   or 
existing innovative content, it demonstrates significant 
added value compared to the previous project results or 
in terms of new target groups, educational, training or 
youth activities or geographical s pread, and contributes 
to improving the quality of   teaching/learning training in 
the countries participating in the project. In so far as 
the   initial   developer of these   previous results is   not 
participating in the project, the relationship between the 
part icipating organisations and the initial developer are 
transparent and respect pre - existing rights. 
The   proposed   innovation   or   complementarity   is 
proportional   to   the   scale   of   the   project   and   the 
experience of the participating organisations. 
In case of inclusion projects involving staff or learners 
with fewer opportunities, the level of innovation should 
be considered in relation to the possibilities of the target 
groups involved. 
The extent to which the proposal brings 
added value at EU level through results 
that would not be attained by activities 
carried out in a single country . 
The expert should judge if the transnational dimension 
clearly adds value in terms of project outcomes and if 
the participating organisations will be able to achieve 
results that would not be reached by organisations from 
a single country.

--- Sayfa 48 ---
48 
Quality of the project design and implementation 
(maximum 30 points) 
The extent to which the project objectives 
are clearly defined, realistic and address 
needs   and   goals   of   the   participating 
organisations   and   the   needs   of   their 
target groups . 
The expert should consider if the objectives of the 
project are clearly stated and can be   achieved 
taking into account the nature and experience of 
the partnership. The expert should also take into 
account if achieving those objectives can lead to 
positive   changes at the level of the organisations. 
The   expert   should   consider   if   the   proposal 
identifies   and   adequately   addresses   clearly 
specified needs of the target group of the project, 
including at a wider scale, not only benefitting 
participants   who   directly   take   part   in   project 
activities. 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposed 
methodology   is   clear,   adequate   and 
feasible . 
The expert will assess to what extent t he proposed 
methodology   is   realistic   and   appropriate   for 
producing the expected results. 
The   methodology   builds   on   solid   arguments 
/evidence   basis   and   takes   account   of   existing 
knowledge and practice. 
In   case   of   inclusion   projects   involving   staff   or 
participants with fewer opportunities,   the proposal 
shows   that   the   participating   organisations   will 
support (where needed) these target groups to 
participate fully and on equal footing with other 
staff and participants in the activities. 
Only   for   the   Youth   field :   The   expert   should 
verify that t he project is based on non - formal and 
informal learning methods stimulating creativity, 
active   participation   and   initiative.   A   variety   of 
non - formal learning methods and techniques may 
be applied in order to address the different needs 
of participants and   desired outcomes 
The project work plan is clear, complete 
and   effective,   including   appropriate 
phases   for   preparation,   implementation 
and sharing project results . 
The expert should verify that t he proposal shows 
that all phases of the project have been properly 
designed   in   order   for   the   project   to   realise   its 
objectives   and   address   properly   the   identified 
needs. 
The expert will also assess to what extent t he work 
plan is clearly defined, comprehensive and realistic 
and t he project contains a clear and well - planned 
timetable. 
In   addition,   the   grant   requested   (lump - sum 
amount)   under   which   the   project   will   fall   is 
coherent   with   the   activities   that   the   applicant 
wants   to   implement   and   the   objectives   to   be 
reached .   In case of inclusion projects involving 
participants with fewer opportunities, the proposal 
shows   that   the   participating   organisations   will 
support (where needed) these target groups to 
participate fully and on equal footing with other 
staff and participan ts in the activities.

--- Sayfa 49 ---
49 
The extent to which   t he project is   cost - 
effective   and   allocates   appropriate 
resources to each activity . 
The   expert   should   examine   that   t he   proposal 
provides value for money in terms of the results 
planned as compared to the grant requested lump 
sum. The grant   requested lump   sum is realistic for 
a   good   quality   implementation   of   the   planned 
activities. 
The e xpert will assess the resources allocated to 
each work package and activities, which need to 
be   sufficient   and   adequate   for   a   proper 
implementation.   Activities   also   need   to   address 
crucial   aspects   of   the   award   criteria   such   as 
inclusion, integration of results, and monitori ng. 
The   e xpert   should   compare   the   project   and   its 
work   packages   with   other   projects,   in   order   to 
better   consider   applicant   explanations   in   this 
regard. 
All   project   management   activities   should   be 
included   in   a   separate   work   package,   without 
specific   objectives,   representing   a   maximum   of 
20% of the requested budget. 
The extent to which the project proposes 
appropriate   quality   control,   monitoring 
and evaluation measures to ensure that 
the   project   implementation   is   of   high 
quality, completed in time and on budget . 
The   expert   should   verify   that   t he   proposal 
foresees   appropriate   evaluation   and   monitoring 
activities at critical stages of the project, which 
will allow measuring the progress and quality of 
the project activities and outcomes, as well as the 
appropriate   use   of   funds.   The   quality   contro l 
measures   will   allow   the   project   to   take   any 
necessary corrective measures in time. 
The   extent   to   which   the   activities   are 
designed   in   an   accessible   and   inclusive 
way and are open to people with fewer 
opportunities . 
The expert should consider that i n line with the 
inclusion   dimension   of   the   Programme,   this 
element   highlights   the   importance   of   involving 
participants   with   fewer   opportunities   in   project 
activities. 
The expert should consider whether the design of 
the   activities   has   the   potential   to   increase   the 
participation of people with fewer opportunities. 
This implies whether the proposal acknowledges 
the   potential   barriers   that   can   hinder   their 
participation   an d   proposes   realistic   and   clear 
actions to increase it. 
Another element to be looked at is whether the 
project   target   groups   of   people   with   fewer 
opportunities are well identified as well as whether 
the ways to reach out to them and engage them 
are clearly defined.

--- Sayfa 50 ---
50 
The   extent   to   which   the   project 
incorporates the use of digital tools and 
learning methods to complement their 
physical activities, and to improve the 
cooperation   between   partner 
organisations. 
If   Erasmus+   online   platforms   are 
available   in   the   field(s)   of   the 
participating organisations: the extent 
to   which   the   project   makes   use   of 
Erasmus+ online platforms ( European 
School   Education   Platform,   including 
eTwinning ,   EPALE,   European   Youth 
Portal,   Youthpass )   as   tools   for 
preparation,   implementation   and 
follow - up of the project activities. 
The expert should consider that   the project   refers 
both to the concrete ways in which digital tools 
and   learning   methods   are   included   in   the 
cooperation and the proposed activities, and to 
the   way   participants   will   benefit   from   blended 
forms   of   activities,   thus   increasing   the   digital 
competences an d readiness of beneficiaries and 
participants. 
If applicable,   the   expert should further assess if 
the proposal clearly describes how the Erasmus+ 
online platforms have been used to prepare the 
project or includes concrete and realistic plans to 
use   these   platforms   in   the   future   for   project 
preparation, implementation or   follow - up. 
The   project   is   designed   in   an   eco - 
friendly   way   and   incorporates   green 
practices in different project phases . 
T he expert should   consider   the extent to which 
the project has the potential to raise awareness 
about   environmental   and   climate   change 
challenges.   The   project   and   activities   design 
enable   behavioural   changes   for   individual 
preferences, consumption habits and lifestyles, 
by implemen ting ecological practices (e.g. save 
resources,   reduce   energy   use   and   waste, 
compensate carbon footprint emissions, opt for 
sustainable food and mobility choices, etc.). 
The   extent   to   which   the   project 
encourages   participation   and   civic 
engagement. 
The expert should assess whether the proposal 
includes credible and well - planned activities that 
aim to foster the active participation of target 
groups and to strengthen their engagement in 
community   life.   The   expert   will   consider   how 
clearly the proposal   integrates participation and 
civic   engagement   into   its   methodology   and 
expected   results,   and   whether   it   offers 
meaningful opportunities for participants to take 
an active role, such as contributing to decisions, 
co - designing   activities   or   engaging   in 
comm unity - oriented initiatives, in ways that are 
appropriate and relevant to their profile (see also 
section 5: Participation in democratic life). 
The   extent   to   which   t he   project   clearly 
describes both qualitative and quantitative 
indicators, that are   realistic, feasible, and 
contribute   to   strengthening   the   overall 
quality of the project. 
The expert should verify that the proposal presents 
a   clear   and   coherent   set   of   qualitative   and 
quantitative indicators that are appropriate for the 
project’s objectives and planned activities, in order 
to assess its progress and results.

--- Sayfa 51 ---
51 
If the project plans training, teaching 
or learning activities: 
the extent to which these activities are 
appropriate   to   the   project's   aims   and 
involve   the   appropriate   profile   and 
number of participants. 
The   quality   of   practical   arrangements, 
management   and   support   modalities   in 
learning, teaching and training activities. 
The   expert   should   consider   that   i n   case 
transnational   teaching,   training   or   learning 
activities are proposed, these contribute directly 
to the objectives of the project and are strongly 
embedded in the project logic as a whole.   The 
expert should examine that t he proposal proves 
that the teaching, training or learning activities in 
a   specific   field   are   embedded   in   a   coherent 
package of activities   and that these   activities are 
of the appropriate volume, bring an added value 
and will have a direct impact on the achievement 
of the project resu lts. 
The   expert   should   assess   t o   what   extent   t he 
teaching, training or learning activities are well 
conceived, i.e. the proposal demonstrates good 
quality   management,   support   and   practical 
arrangements,   selection   and   preparation   of 
participants,   training,   teaching   or   learning 
agreements, monitoring of   teaching, training or 
learning   activities,   ensuring   the   safety   of 
participants.

--- Sayfa 52 ---
If the project plans training, teaching 
or learning activities: 
The quality of arrangements for the 
recognition   and   validation   of 
participants'   learning   outcomes,   in 
line with European transparency and 
recognition tools and principles. 
The expert should consider that i n case 
transnational teaching, training or learning 
activities are proposed, relevant transparency 
and recognition tools and/or policy approaches 
developed in the framework of policy 
cooperation at European level will be used for 
recognising and validating   the learning outcomes 
of participants, such as: European / national 
qualifications frameworks; European framework 
of key competences and the 
European   guidelines   for   the   validation   of   non - 
formal and informal learning. 
Only for the Adult Education field :   The expert 
should   verify   that   t he   proposal   comprises   the 
necessary measures to facilitate the validation of 
non - formal   and   informal   learning   and   its 
permeability   with   formal   education   pathways. 
Recommended   EU   recognition   tool   for   adult 
education staff: Europass. 
If the proposal provides for long - term teaching, 
training or learning activities of staff,   the expert 
should look for a   descri ption of   the measures put 
in place for ensuring the quality of the mobility 
activities,   comprising   1)   preparation   including 
linguistic   and   subject   preparation   before   and 
during   the   mobility   and   2)   support   to   and 
monitoring of participants during their mobility 
by t he sending and/or hosting organisation. 
Only   for   the   School   Education   field :   The 
expert   should   verify   that   t he   proposal   clearly 
describes   how   the   learning   outcomes   of 
participating   pupils   and   school   staff   will   be 
recognised/validated   within   the   context   of   the 
school   and   the   curriculum.   Recommended   EU 
recognition tool for school education staff and 
pupils: Europa ss. 
If the project includes activities for pupils, these 
activities are integrated into the curriculum and 
contribute to achieve defined learning goals. 
Only for the VET field :   The expert should verify 
that   t he   learning   outcomes   are 
recognised/validated   following   the   same 
arrangements   and   criteria   used   in   mobility 
activities   under   Key   Action   1.   Recommended 
recognition tools: ECVET, Europass. 
Only   for   the   Higher   Education   field :   The 
expert should verify that t he learning outcomes 
are   recognised/validated   following   the   same 
arrangements   and   criteria   used   in   mobility 
activities under Key Action 1, in line with the 
Erasmus Charter for Higher Education (ECHE). 
Recommended recognition tool: ECTS. 
Only for the Youth field :   The expert should 
verify   that   l earning   outcomes   are   recognised 
following   the   same   arrangements   and   criteria 
used in mobility activities under Key Action 1, 
and notably through the use of Youthpass.

--- Sayfa 53 ---
53 
Quality of the partnership and the cooperation arrangements 
(maximum 20 points) 
The extent to which the project involves an 
appropriate   mix   of   participating 
organisations   in   terms   of   profile,   past 
experience   in   the   Programme   and 
expertise   to   successfully   complete   all 
project objectives . 
Taking into account the nature of the project and 
its expected impact,   the expert should examine 
that   the   participating   organisations   have   the 
skills and competences required to ensure that 
the   work   programme   can   be   implemented 
efficiently, effectively and professionally. 
The expert should evaluate to what extent t he 
proposal   concretely   identifies   which   skills, 
experiences, expertise and management support 
each of the participating organisations will make 
available to implement all aspects of the project 
proposed. 
The expert should also verify that t he proposal 
shows that the participating organisations have 
established and will run a cohesive consortium 
with active involvement of all partners and with 
common goals to be achieved. 
In this respect, the following factors should be 
taken into consideration during the assessment: 
▪   the   level   of   networking,   cooperation   and 
commitment of each participating organisation 
in the project; 
▪   the   profile   and   background   of   participating 
organisations when the nature or target of the 
activity   would   necessitate   the   possession   of 
certain qualifications; 
▪   the   capacity   of   the   consortium   to   ensure 
effective   implementation,   follow - up   and 
dissemination of the results achieved through 
the project. 
▪   in case of inclusion projects, the capacity and 
expertise of the consortium to support (where 
needed) the participation of staff or learners 
with fewer opportunities. 
The expert should look for a   clear and commonly 
agreed definition and an appropriate distribution 
of roles and tasks and a balanced participation 
and input of the participating organisations in the 
implementation of the work programme, taking 
into account the complementary competencie s, 
the nature of the activities and the know - how of 
the partners involved. 
The expert will examine i f it is necessary for the 
project's   success   to   use   expertise   of 
organisations   from   different   fields,   and/or   the 
project intends to impact more than one field of 
education,   training   and   youth,   relevant 
organisations of all concerned fields

--- Sayfa 54 ---
54 
participate in the project. 
The proposal demonstrates convincingly why the 
participation of the organisations from different 
fields of education, training, youth and/or other 
socio - economic sectors is best suited to produce 
the outputs that respond to the identified needs. 
The   extent   to   which   the   project   involves 
newcomers   and   less   experienced 
organisations to the Action . 
The expert should verify if t he proposal includes 
one or more participating organisations that are 
newcomers to this action or that are considered 
less experienced organisations, and on which the 
impact   expected   from   the   participation   in   the 
project would be particularly high. 
The   definitions   of   ‘ newcomers ’   and   ‘ less 
experienced organisations ’   are provided in the 
glossary of the Programme Guide. 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposed 
allocation   of   tasks   demonstrates   the 
commitment and active contribution of all 
participating organisations . 
The   expert   should   consider if there   is a clear 
definition and an appropriate distribution of roles 
and   tasks.   Balanced   participation   of   the 
participating organisations in the implementation 
of the work programme, according to the nature 
of   the   activities   a nd   the   experience   of   the 
partners involved, is expected. 
The extent to which the proposal includes 
effective mechanisms for coordination and 
communication between the participating 
organisations,   as   well   as   with   other 
relevant stakeholders . 
The e xpert   assesses   if   the methods of project 
coordination and means of communication are 
clearly defined and appropriate for the project to 
ensure   a   good   cooperation   between   the 
participating organisations. 
If   applicable,   the   extent   to   which   the 
involvement of a participating organisation 
from a third country not associated to the 
Programme   brings   an   essential   added 
value to the project (if this condition is not 
fulfilled,   the   participating   organisation 
from   a third country not associated to the 
Programme   will   be   excluded   from   the 
project proposal at assessment stage). 
The participation of organisations from third 
countries not associated to the Programme 
provides genuine added value to the project 
because of the specific skills, experiences or 
expertise that these organisations bring to the 
project and   that prove to be essential for the 
achievement of the project's objectives and/or to 
ensure a significantly higher quality of the 
project outputs. 
NB:   If   the   proposal   does   not   provide 
convincing evidence of such added value of 
a   third   country   not   associated   to   the 
Programme   organisation's   participation in 
the project,   the latter will be proposed for 
removal   from   the   project   proposal   at 
assessment stage. The expert shall continue 
the   assessment   process   of   the   proposal 
without   the   participation   of   such   partner 
and complete the assessment even without 
the   participation   of   the   third   country   not 
associated to the Programme organisation. 
Impact 
(maximum score 25 points) 
The extent to which the project proposal 
includes   concrete   and   logical   steps   to 
integrate the project results in the regular 
work of participating organisations . 
Considering the proposed activities and project 
objectives, the expert should judge how specific, 
clear   and   effective   are   the   partnership’s 
proposals for integrating the achieved results in 
the partner organisations’ daily work.

--- Sayfa 55 ---
55 
The   extent   to   which   the   project   has   the 
potential   to   positively   impact   its 
participants and   participating organisations, 
as well as their wider communities . 
The project is likely to have a substantial positive 
impact on the participating organisations and on 
their staff and/or learners. 
The impact of the project on the participants and 
organisations involved is likely to occur during 
and remain after the lifetime of the project. 
The proposal demonstrates which benefits 
(trans - national, interdisciplinary, cross - field) the 
proposed cooperation brings to the partners   – 
also in the long run, after Erasmus+ funding, e.g. 
how   it   contributes   to   the   internationalisation 
strategies of the participating organisations. 
The extent to which the expected project 
results   have   the   potential   to   be   used 
outside the organisations participating in 
the   project   during   and   after   the   project 
lifetime, and at local, regional, national or 
European level . 
The   project   results   have   the   potential   to   be 
transferred   and   exploited   in   other   European 
countries. 
The   proposal   identifies   relevant   stakeholders, 
including policymakers at the most appropriate 
level,   whether   local,   regional,   national   and/or 
European. 
Taking due account of the scope and size of the 
project: 
-   it is likely to have a positive impact at local, 
regional, national and/or European level; 
-   it is likely to lead to innovative developments 
at system level and/or provide useful input to 
policy developments; 
-   it   shows   potential   for   scalability   and 
synergies   with   other   Erasmus+   actions 
and/or other European Programmes.

--- Sayfa 56 ---
56 
The project proposal includes concrete and 
effective steps to make the results of the 
project known within the participating 
organisations, to share the results with 
other organisations and the public, and to 
publicly acknowledge the European Union 
funding . 
I f   relevant,   the   extent   to   which   the 
proposal   describes   how   the   materials, 
documents   and   media   produced   will   be 
made   freely   available   and   promoted 
through   open   licences,   and   does   not 
contain disproportionate limitations . 
The proposal identifies the project results that 
can be transferred to the relevant target groups. 
An appropriate and effective set of measures and 
tools will be used to reach the target groups for 
dissemination. 
The   planned   dissemination   and   exploitation 
activities will ensure an optimal use of the results 
at local, regional, national and/or European level 
depending on the scope and size of the project. 
In each of the participating organisations specific 
and   adequate   resources   are   allocated   to   the 
dissemination activities. 
If   the   project   foresees   tangible   results   and 
deliverables,   participating   organisations   will 
allow open access to materials, documents and 
media produced within the project. 
If   the   proposal   foresees   limitations   to   open 
access, they are not disproportionate and will not 
significantly affect the dissemination and possible 
impact of the project. 
Only for the Adult Education and VET fields: 
If   relevant,   the   proposal   explains   if   and   how 
EPALE will be used to increase the impact of the 
project   and   support   the   dissemination   of   the 
project   results,   in   addition   to   the   use   of   the 
Erasmus+ Project Results. 
Only   for   the   School   Education   field:   The 
proposal explains if and how   European School 
Education Platform (including   eTwinning )   will be 
used to support the dissemination of the project 
results, in addition to the use of the Erasmus+ 
Project Results Platform.

--- Sayfa 57 ---
57 
The project proposal includes concrete and 
effective steps to ensure the sustainability 
of   the   project,   its   capacity   to   continue 
having   an   impact   and   producing   results 
after the EU grant has been used up. 
The project is placed in a perspective that goes 
beyond the project period. It plans to achieve a 
multiplier effect and sustainable impact that are 
within its reach considering the scope and size of 
the project. 
If relevant for the type of project, its results will 
be integrated in the management / pedagogical 
framework of the participating organisations. 
If   relevant   for   the   type   of   project,   the 
participating   organisations   have   the   intention 
and are able to attract external co - funding or 
other   support   from   diverse   sources   to   ensure 
sustainability of the activities developed by the 
project and continued use   of outputs and results. 
Only for the School Education field:   The 
proposal explains if and how   European School 
Education Platform (including   eTwinning )   will be 
used to support the sustainability of the project. 
Only for the VET field:   The proposal is likely to 
have the foreseen positive impact on the target 
groups beyond the project lifetime. The proposal 
explains which project activities and results are 
supposed to be continued and maintained after 
the end of Erasmus+ funding (i.e. con tinuation 
of new courses, use and maintenance of new 
teaching tools…) and how and with which 
resources other than from the EU (finance, staff, 
equipment) this will be done. 
Only for the Youth field:   The proposal is likely 
to have the expected positive impact on the 
target groups beyond the project lifetime, in 
particular for participants with fewer 
opportunities. The proposal describes how the 
participating organisations will exploit the 
experience w ithin the project to improve the 
situation of these target groups and to further 
stimulate their development after the activity.

--- Sayfa 58 ---
58 
Small - scale Partnerships 
Award criteria   elements   as described 
in the Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria 
elements 
Relevance 
(maximum 30 points) 
The extent to which the project proposal is 
relevant to the objectives and the priorities 
of the Action . 
In addition, the proposal will be considered as 
highly relevant if: 
-   it addresses the priority "inclusion 
and diversity"; 
-   In case of projects managed by the 
Erasmus+   National   Agencies   at 
decentralised   level:   if   it   addresses   one   or 
more   "European   Priorities   in   the   national 
context",   as   announced   by   the   National 
Agency . 
Th e expert should assess if the project   references 
the objectives of the action as stated in the action’s 
chapter in the Programme Guide. The objectives 
and overall framework of each project should be 
complementary with those objectives and address 
them in a qualitative way. 
Each partnership project must address at least one 
of   the   priorities   of   the   action   (either   of   those 
applying to all Erasmus+ sectors or field - specific), 
as   indicated   in   the   section   "Contribution   of   this 
action to achieving policy priorities". If the projec t 
addresses   a   priority   from   those   applying   to   all 
Erasmus+ sectors, the expert should judge whether 
it clearly proves the impact in the field under which 
the application has been submitted. 
In case the project addresses the horizontal priority 
"Inclusion and diversity in all fields of education, 
training, youth and sport", it will be considered as 
highly relevant to the action as it is addressing an 
area of crucial relevance for the Programme   as a 
whole and in the European context. 
If the proposal addresses one or more "European 
priorities in the national context", as announced by 
the respective National Agency, it will be considered 
as highly relevant to the action as it is addressing a 
European   issue   of   particular   importance   in   the 
national context. 
NB:   If   the   proposal   does   not   provide 
convincing evidence that it is relevant 
to at least one priority, the expert must 
score as "Weak" (score between 0 - 14 
points) the award criterion "Relevance 
of the project" and the whole project 
must be rejected as a conseq uence.

--- Sayfa 59 ---
59 
The extent to which the   proposal is   relevant 
for the   respect and   promotion of shared EU 
values, such as respect for human dignity, 
freedom, democracy, equality, the rule   of   law 
and   respect   for   human   rights,   as   well   as 
fighting any sort of discrimination. 
The   expert should assess   if   the planned activities 
align with   EU values .   The following factors should be 
taken into consideration during the assessment: 
•   Examine   whether   the   proposal   explicitly 
references and integrates EU values into its 
objectives,   methodologies,   acti vities   and 
expected outcomes. A clear articulation of 
how   the   project   supports   and   advances 
these   values   would   be   an   additional 
strength; 
•   E nsure   that   the   proposed   activities   are 
designed   in a non - discriminatory approach 
to benefit a diverse range of participants. 
Look for evidence of strategies and evaluate 
proposed measures to address any form of 
discrimination, based on gender, ethnicity, 
disability, or any other relevant criteria. Put 
emphasis on proactive strategies,   policies, 
or actions demonstrating a commitment to 
fostering a non - discriminatory environment; 
•   Consider   the   presence   of   educational 
components   that   aim   to   enhance 
participants'   understanding   and 
appreciation of EU values; 
•   Assess how   opportunities for learning about 
and experiencing   EU values   are   integrated 
across   different   project   components. 
Projects   that   embed   these   values   into 
various activities rather than treating them 
as standalone elements are likely to have a 
more significant impact; 
•   Monitoring   and   reporting   mechanisms:   If 
applicable,   evaluate   their   effectiveness 
related   to   the   promotion   of   EU   values. 
Assess   whether   the   project   outlines   clear 
indicators   and   metrics   to   measure   this 
aspect. 
The extent to which the profile, experience 
and   activities   of   the   participating 
organisations are relevant for the field of 
The   expert   should   consider   if   the   participating 
organisations form a genuine part of the field in 
which the application has been

--- Sayfa 60 ---
60 
the application.   submitted. Th is   element does not concern only the 
formal or nominal relevance but is rather linked to 
practice as evidenced by the expertise of their staff 
and the nature of the organisation area of activity 
and previous experience working in the field of the 
application . 
The expert should take into consideration that the 
Small - scale partnerships are particularly relevant 
to   target   newcomer   and   less   experienced 
organisations.   Therefore,   previous   experience 
within   Erasmus+   should,   in   this   case,   not 
necessarily   be   considered   as   an   element   that 
determines   the   relevance   of   the   proposal. 
However, it is essential that this organisation brings 
a clear added value to the project in the context of 
the field in which the application was submitted. 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposal   brings 
added value at EU level by building capacity 
of organisations to engage in cross - border 
cooperation and networking . 
The   expert   should   judge   if   the   transnational 
dimension clearly adds value in terms of project 
outcomes and if the participating organisations will 
be   able   to   achieve   results   that   would   not   be 
reached by organisations from a single country. 
Quality of   the   project design and implementation 
(maximum 30 points) 
The extent to which the project objectives 
are clearly defined, realistic and address the 
needs   and   goals   of   the   participating 
organisations and the needs of their target 
groups . 
The   expert   should   consider   if   the   proposed 
objectives   are   well   explained   in   relation   to   the 
partner   organisations’   needs   and   challenges,   as 
well as the needs of the indicated target groups. 
The   extent   to   which   the   activities   are 
designed in an accessible and inclusive way 
and   are   open   to   people   with   fewer 
opportunities. 
In   line   with   the   inclusion   dimension   of   the 
Programme, this element highlights the importance 
of involving participants with fewer opportunities in 
project activities. 
The expert should consider whether the design of 
the activities has the potential to increase the 
participation of people with fewer opportunities. 
This implies whether the proposal acknowledges 
the potential barriers that can hinder their 
participation an d proposes realistic and clear 
actions to increase it. 
Another element to be looked at is whether the 
project   target   groups   of   people   with   fewer 
opportunities are well identified as well as whether 
the ways to reach out to them and engage them 
are clearly defined 
The   extent   to   which   the   proposed 
methodology   is   clea r,   adequate   and 
feasible: 
-   project work plan is clear, complete 
and   effective, including appropriate phases 
for preparation, implementation and sharing 
project results; 
-   the   project   is   cost - effective   and 
allocates   appropriate   resources   to   each 
activity . 
T he   expert   should   consider   if   the   application   is 
sufficiently specific, clear, concrete, and realistic in 
presenting   the   content   and   expected   results   of 
proposed   activities.   Experts   should   judge   if   the 
partner organisations have explained convincingly 
how t he implementation of proposed activities will 
logically lead to addressing the identified needs 
and the achieving the project’s stated objectives. 
In   addition,   the   requested   lump   sum   amount 
should   be   considered   in   view   of   achieving   the 
objectives of the p roject. 
This   should   include   a   consideration   on   whether 
appropriate   phases   for   preparation,

--- Sayfa 61 ---
61 
implementation,   monitoring,   evaluation   and 
sharing of results have been planned. 
Value for money   needs to be assessed, as the 
lump   sum   requested   must   be   in   line   with   and 
justified by the proposed activities. In order to do 
so, the expert should evaluate the proposal both 
at activity level as well as at the level of the entire 
project.   The   description   of   the   definition   of   the 
grant amount is key in this evaluation. If possible, 
experts should also compare the project and its 
activities with other projects, in order to better 
consider these explanations. 
The simplified budget scheme does not require a 
separate budget for project management. Instead, 
these   costs   should   be   covered   by   the   amounts 
allocated to each project activity. Around   20%   of 
the project requested lump sum is typically used 
for project management expenses, but this can be 
flexible depending on the applicant's resources and 
project size and complexity. It can be acceptable 
that smaller projects may use a larger portion of 
th eir budget for these horizontal costs. 
If the proposed deliverables are found   entirely 
insufficient   to   justify the   requested   grant, the 
award   criterion   should   be   assessed   below   the 
minimum threshold. (half of the maximum points 
of the award criterion) 
The   work   plan   has   to   be   clearly   defined, 
comprehensive   and   realistic   in   relation   to   the 
requested lump sum amount. The portion of the 
grant   amount   allocated   to   each   project   activity 
described in the proposal should be sufficient and 
adequate to the nature   and value of the activity. 
In case of inclusion projects involving participants 
with fewer opportunities, the proposal shows that 
the participating organisations will support (where 
needed) these target groups to participate fully 
and   on   equal   footing   with   other   staff   and 
participan ts in the activities. 
Only for the Youth field : The project is based on 
non - formal and informal learning methods 
stimulating creativity, active participation and 
initiative. A variety of non - formal learning methods 
and techniques may be applied in order to address 
the different needs of participants a nd desired 
outcomes

--- Sayfa 62 ---
62 
The extent to which the project incorporates 
the use of digital tools and learning methods 
to complement their physical activities, and 
to   improve   the   cooperation   with   partner 
organisations. 
If applicable: the extent to which the project 
makes   use   of   Erasmus+   online   platforms 
( European   School   Education   Platform, 
including   eTwinning ,   EPALE,   European 
Youth Portal, EU Youth Strategy Platform) 
as   tools for preparation, implementation and 
follow - up of the project activities. 
Th e expert should assess   the concrete ways in 
which   digital   tools   and   learning   methods   are 
included   in   the   cooperation   and   the   proposed 
activities,   and   the   way   participants   will   benefit 
from blended forms of activities, thus   increasing 
the   digital   competences   and   readiness   of 
beneficiaries and participants. 
If applicable,   the   expert should further assess if 
the proposal clearly describes how the Erasmus+ 
online platforms have been used to prepare the 
project or includes concrete and realistic plans to 
use   these   platforms   in   the   future   for   project 
preparation, implementation or follow - up. 
The extent to which the project is designed 
in   an   eco - friendly   way   and   incorporates 
green practices in different project phases . 
T he   expert   should   take   into   consideration   the 
extent to which the project has the potential to 
raise awareness about environmental and climate 
change   challenges.   The   project   and   activities 
design enable behavioural changes for individual 
preferences, consum ption habits and lifestyles, by 
implementing   ecological   practices   (e.g.   save 
resources,   reduce   energy   use   and   waste, 
compensate   carbon   footprint   emissions,   opt   for 
sustainable food and mobility choices, etc.). 
The extent to which the project encourages 
participation and civic engagement. 
The   expert   should   assess   whether   the   proposal 
includes   credible   and   well - planned   activities   that 
aim   to   foster   the   active   participation   of   target 
groups   and   to   strengthen   their   engagement   in 
community life. The expert will consider how clearly 
the   proposal   integrates   participation   and   civic 
engagement   into   its   methodology   and   expected 
results,   and   whether   it   offers   meaningful 
opportunities for participants to take an active role, 
such   as   contributing   to   decisions,   co - designing 
activities   or   engaging   in   comm unity - oriented 
initiatives, in ways that are appropriate and relevant 
to their profile (see also section 5: Participation in 
democratic life). 
Quality of the partnership and cooperation arrangements 
(maximum 20 points) 
The extent to which the project involves an 
appropriate   mix   of   participating 
organisations in terms of profile . 
Experts   should   assess   the   extent   to   which   the 
proposal   clearly   explains   the   reasons   for 
participation of the involved organisations and their 
common   interests.   The   role   and   contribution   of 
each   the   participating   organisation   should   be 
clearly described and   taken into account. 
Consider   the   specific   nature   of   Small - scale 
partnerships and their focus on newcomer and less 
experienced organisations, the expert should judge 
whether the participating organisations have the 
skills   and   competences   required   to   run   the 
proposed activities . While leaving scope for learning 
to cooperate and foster development throughout 
the project, organisations should ensure sufficient 
quality in the implementation, even if they have 
little or no previous experience within Erasmus+.

--- Sayfa 63 ---
63 
The   extent   to   which   the   project   involves 
newcomers   and   less   experienced 
organisations to the Action . 
This element highlights the importance of   small - 
scale   partnerships   as   a   steppingstone   into   the 
Erasmus+ programme for organisations that have 
never regularly benefitted from the same action in 
the past. 
The expert should consider if the proposal includes 
one   or   more   participating   organisations   that   are 
newcomers to this action or that are considered less 
experienced organisations, and on which the impact 
expected from the participation in the project would 
be particularly high. 
T he expert must use past participation information 
included in the application form and they must apply 
the   exact   definitions   of   a   ‘newcomer’   and   ‘less 
experienced organisation’ provided   in the   glossary 
of the   Programme Guide.   The   expert must register 
their   conclusions   as   part   of   typology   questions 
accompanying the assessment . 
The extent to which the proposed allocation 
of tasks demonstrates the commitment and 
active   contribution   of   all   participating 
organisations . 
The   expert   should   consider   if   there   is   a   clear 
definition and an appropriate distribution of   roles 
and   tasks.   Balanced   participation   of   the 
participating organisations in the implementation of 
the work programme, according to the nature of the 
activities   and   the   experience   of   the   partners 
involved, is expected. 
In particular, considering the nature of this action, 
it is important that the proposal describes an active 
role and substantial participation of newcomer and 
less - experienced organisations in the project tasks 
and activities. 
The extent to which the proposal includes 
effective mechanisms for coordination and 
communication   between   the   participating 
organisations . 
The e xpert   should assess   if   the methods of project 
coordination   and   means   of   communication   are 
clearly defined and appropriate for the project to 
ensure   a   good   cooperation   between   the 
participating organisations. 
Impact 
(maximum 20   p oints) 
The extent to which the project proposal 
includes   concrete   and   logical   steps   to 
integrate the project results in the regular 
work of participating organisation . 
Considering   the   proposed   activities   and   project 
objectives, the expert should judge how specific, 
clear and effective are the partnership’s proposals 
for integrating the achieved results in the partner 
organisations’ daily work.

--- Sayfa 64 ---
64 
The   extent   to   which   the   project   has the 
potential   to   positively   impact   its 
participants   and   participating 
organisations,   as   well   as   the   wider 
community . 
T he expert should consider if the project can have 
a substantial positive impact on the participating 
organisations, their staff and learners, during and 
after the project implementation. 
If relevant and in proportion to the project size and 
scope,   the   experts   should   consider   whether   the 
proposal identifies target groups or organisations 
not participating in the project that will be positively 
impacted by the implementation of the activitie s. 
The extent to which the project proposal 
includes an appropriate way to evaluate the 
project outcomes . 
The expert should consider, in proportion to the 
project size and scope, the partnership’s planning 
on how to evaluate if the expected benefits of the 
proposed   activities   have   been   achieved.   With 
regards to project objectives, the element refers to 
the   par tner   organisations’   proposal   on   how   to 
evaluate   if   the   stated   objectives   have   been 
reached. 
The extent to which the project proposal 
includes   concrete   and   effective   steps   to 
make   the   results   of   the   project   known 
within   the   participating   organisations,   to 
share the results with other organisations 
and the public, and to publicly acknowledge 
the Eu ropean Union funding. 
The expert should consider if the proposal identifies 
the project results that can be made available to 
the relevant target groups. 
The   expert   should   also   consider   whether   the 
partner organisations have used all possibilities at 
their   disposal   to   make   sure   that   results   of   the 
project   and   knowledge   about   the   Erasmus+ 
programme are spread as widely as possible.

--- Sayfa 65 ---
65 
European Partnerships for School Development 
T he main purpose of the European   Partnerships for   School   Development   is to encourage 
better   cross - border   cooperation   and   mobility   among   schools   across   Europe   with   a 
sustainable and systemic impact .   P roject s   should   do this   through improvements in the 
practices, policies and procedures of school authorities and schools that will take place over 
the duration of the project and have an impact long beyond the project duration . It is also 
expected   that   school   authorities   apply   the   principles   or   changes   developed   within   a 
Partnership for School Development   to other schools under their authority that were not 
part of the project , contributing to a wider audience than the participating organisations . 
P roject s   need   to   achieve   a   balance   between   being   realistic   and   ambitious to   achieve 
systemic and long - term impact. 
This is why the   award criterion   “Impact”   carries the largest part of the assessment with 35 
out of 100 points , and all other criteria are linked to it . The large number of points reflects 
the complexity of the criterion and the wide variation in quality that experts may encounter. 
Experts should make full use of the   35   points scale to fine - tune their assessment and 
differentiate applications according to their level of quality. 
Recognising   original,   convincing   and   genuine   proposals:   experts   should   consider   the 
information presented in the application form critically to evaluate 
•   if it shows a real self - reflection on the part of the applicant ; 
•   if it is rooted in reality of everyday educational work and challenges in the school 
education system s   of the   participating   countries and regions, and ; 
if   the   links   being   established   with   European   or   national   policy   narratives   are 
concrete and tangible. 
Award criteria   elements   as described 
in the Programme Guide 
Guidance on how to   assess   the   award criteria 
elements 
Relevance 
(maximum 15 points) 
Relevance   for   action   objectives:   the 
proposal contributes to the objectives of 
the   European   Partnerships   for   School 
Development ; 
The expert should consider   if   the project   addresses the 
objectives   of the action as stated in the action’s 
chapter in the Programme Guide. 
NB:   If the proposal does not provide convincing 
evidence that it is relevant to   the objectives ,   the 
expert must   assess   the   application   to be below 
the minimum threshold for this   award criterion. 
Needs analysis:   the application is based 
on comprehensive analysis of needs and 
challenges in the school education systems 
of the participating countries/regions; 
The applicant must show precise and real challenges 
that the project will address. The needs analysis must 
include relevant context, real - life examples and data, 
and must explain why the project is actually needed. 
European   added   value:   the   proposal 
brings   added   value   at   EU   level   through 
results   that   would   not   be   attained   by 
activities carried out in a single country; 
T he expert should   assess whether   the transnational 
dimension   of the project   clearly adds value in terms of 
project outcomes and if the participating organisations 
will be able to achieve results that would not be 
reached by organisations from a single country. 
EU values:   the proposal is relevant for 
the respect and promotion of shared EU 
values, such as respect for human 
The expert should assess   if   the planned activities align 
with   EU values. The following factors should be taken 
into consideration during the assessment:

--- Sayfa 66 ---
66 
dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, 
the rule of law and respect for human 
rights, as well as fighting any sort of 
discrimination. 
•   Examine whether the proposal explicitly 
references and integrates EU values into its 
objectives, methodologies, activities and 
expected outcomes. A clear articulation of how 
the project supports and advances these 
values would be an additional strength; 
•   Ensure that the proposed activities are 
designed in a non - discriminatory approach to 
benefit a diverse range of participants. Look 
for evidence of strategies and evaluate 
proposed measures to address any form of 
discrimination, based on gender, ethnicity, 
disability, or any other relevant criteria. Put 
emphasis on proactive strategies, policies, or 
actions demonstrating a commitment to 
fostering a non - discriminatory environment; 
•   Consider the presence of educational 
components that aim to enhance participants' 
understanding and appreciation of EU values; 
•   Assess how opportunities for learning about 
and experiencing EU values are integrated 
across different project components. Projects 
that embed these values into various activities 
rather than treating them as standalone 
elements are likely to have a more s ignificant 
impact; 
•   Monitoring and reporting mechanisms: If 
applicable, evaluate their effectiveness related 
to the promotion of EU values. Assess whether 
the project outlines clear indicators and 
metrics to measure this aspect. 
Quality of project design 
(maximum 30 points) 
Work packages: 
▪   the   proposed   methodology   is   clear, 
adequate and feasible; 
▪   the   project   work   plan   is   coherent, 
clear, complete and effective; 
Each   work package   must   address its task as defined in 
the Programme Guide; it must   be clear and concrete ; 
implementable ,   and   its progress must be trackable. 
The different work packages must be coherent, 
complementary and clearly contributing to overall 
project results. 
The relationship between each work package and the 
overall project objectives   must   be presented clearly 
and concretely, so that the contribution of every work 
package to the   project objectives   is explicit. 
The   project   methodology   must be   realistic and 
appropriate for producing the expected results. 
NB: If the application contains any work 
packages that are severely lacking in clarity, are 
impossible to track and evaluate, or   do not 
address their task as defined in   the   Programme 
Guide , the expert must assess the   application   to 
be below the minimum threshold for this award 
criterion. 
Monitoring:   the   project   proposes 
appropriate quality control, monitoring and 
supervision measures to ensure that the 
project implementation is of high quality, 
completed in time and on budget; 
The proposal clearly defines the people responsible for 
monitoring the project’s progress and results and 
defines an effective methodology and frequency of 
monitoring exercises. 
The application identifies potential risks and proposes 
effective ways to address them.

--- Sayfa 67 ---
67 
Budgeting:   the   project   is   cost - effective 
and   allocates   appropriate   resources   to 
each activity and partner; 
The expert should examine   whether   the proposal 
provides value for money in terms of the planned 
results   and the expected impact   compared to the 
defined project   lump sum. 
The expert s   should   assess the resources allocated to 
each work package and activit y ,   and whether they are 
adequate for   effective   implementation   a nd achieving 
the desired impact . 
The expert should compare the project   proposal   and 
its work packages with other project   proposals   to 
better   assess the proposal’s value for money . 
Inclusion   and   diversity:   the   activities 
are designed in an accessible and inclusive 
way; 
The expert should consider whether the design of the 
activities   is   in line with the inclusion dimension of the 
Programme , and if the project proposal   has the 
potential to increase the participation of people with 
fewer opportunities. 
Digital:   the project incorporates the use 
of   digital   tools   such   as   the   European 
School   Education   Platform   (including 
eTwinning)   and   learning   methods   to 
complement   their   physical   activities   and 
improve   cooperation   between   partner 
organisations; 
The expert should consider   whether   digital tools and 
learning methods are   used as part of the project in an 
effective way. 
T he expert should further assess if the proposal clearly 
describes how the Erasmus+ online platforms have 
been used to prepare the project   proposal   or includes 
concrete and realistic plans to use these platforms in 
the future for project preparation, implementation or 
follow - up. 
Environmental   sustainability:   the 
project is designed in an eco - friendly way 
and   incorporates   green   practices   in 
different project phases; 
The expert should consider , if in addition or as part of 
their tasks,   the project has the potential to raise 
awareness about environmental and climate change 
challenges. 
Participation and civic engagement: 
the project encourages participation and
civic engagement. 
The expert should consider, if in addition or as part of 
their tasks, the project promotes participation and 
civic engagement. 
Quality of the partnership and the cooperation arrangements 
(maximum 20 points) 
Project   coordinator:   the   coordinating 
organisation   has   appropriate   expertise, 
resources and role in the education system 
to successfully lead the project; 
T he expert should examine   if   the   coordinating 
organisation   ha s   the   capacity   to   coordinate   the 
partnership and ensure that the project   is 
implemented efficiently, effectively and professionally. 
The role of the coordinating organisation in the 
education system (responsibilities and decision - 
making capacity)   must be appropriate for the scope 
and ambition of the project objectives. 
Partnership composition: 
▪   the   partner   school   authorities   have 
complementary   experience,   needs, 
and roles in the education system; 
▪   the partner schools have a clear and 
proportional role in the project; 
▪   the   partner   schools   are   sufficiently 
diverse in terms of their experience in 
cross - border mobility and cooperation; 
The expert should evaluate to what extent the 
proposal identifies   the contributions of each 
participating organisation in terms of   expertise , 
resources and know - how   to implement the project. 
Complementarity between school authorities means 
that they share similar challenges and interests, and 
are able to work on them together due to similar or 
compatible roles and responsibilities in their respective 
school education systems. 
The project role of each participating school must be 
clear.

--- Sayfa 68 ---
68 
▪   the size and scope of the partnership 
is appropriate for the achievement of 
the planned project results; 
The participation of other organisations (apart from 
school authorities and schools) must be justified in 
relation to planned project results. 
Allocation   of   tasks:   the   proposed 
allocation   of   tasks   demonstrates   the 
commitment   and   continuous   active 
involvement   of   all   participating 
organisations,   and   in   particular   the 
coordinating   and   partner   school 
authorities; 
The expert should consider if there is a clear definition 
and an appropriate distribution of roles and tasks   with 
active involvement of all participating organisations . 
Due to their role, responsibility and resources, a 
strong, continuous and practical, hands - on 
involvement of school authorities is necessary. 
Complementarity:   the   proposal   is 
complementary to other initiatives already 
being   carried   out   by   the   participating 
organisations,   in   particular   Erasmus 
accreditations in Key Action 1; 
T he expert will examine   how   the project will   build on 
existing knowledge, practices   and other projects   of the 
participating   organisations. 
If the participating organisations hold an Erasmus 
accreditation in the field of school education, they 
should create synergies with the European   Partnership 
for   School   Development and demonstrate them with 
concrete examples (e.g.   shared results,   improved 
mobility procedures , easier and better recognition of 
learning outcomes) . 
Communication and coordination:   the 
proposal includes effective mechanisms 
for coordination and communication 
between the participating organisations, 
as well as with other relevant 
stakeholders. 
The expert must assess to what extent a ppropriate 
channels, tools, or platforms are in place for regular 
communication , and clear responsibilities are assigned 
for this purpose in each partner organisation .   The 
continuity of project implementation must be ensured 
through involvement of multiple people per 
organisation, especially in school authorities. 
Impact 
(maximum 35 points) 
Project   results:   the   project   proposal 
clearly   identifies   improvements   in   the 
practices,   policies   and   procedures   of 
school   authorities   and   schools   that   will 
happen as a result of the project; 
To be scored highly, proposals need to identify 
changes in the way the participating organisations 
operate (i.e. their   practices, policies and procedures ) 
and how the project will improve on that. For 
European   Partnerships for   School   Development , such 
changes are more important than tangible outputs. 
Rather than spending a large part of the grant on 
developing new outputs, projects should identify and 
spread existing good practices and build on outputs 
from previous projects. When possible, chang es in 
polic y should accompany the changes in practices and 
procedures to consolidate them and lead to long - term 
impact. 
Tracking project results:   the proposal 
defines clear implementation milestones, 
and qualitative and quantitative indicators 
to prove that the planned improvements 
have taken place; 
Within   this criterion, project results refer   to what will 
be done, while impact refers to the effects that these 
results will have. 
Tracking project results and tracking impact must be 
described separately (many applicants make the 
common   error of   tracking   only   results   and not impact ). 
The e xpert must assess whether   the proposed plan is 
clear (coherent and sufficiently detailed) and realistic 
( achieving   the implementation milestones   will 
gradually lead to the   expected   results ), and whether 
the proposed   indicators   are relevant, credible, clear 
and robust.

--- Sayfa 69 ---
69 
Tracking   impact:   the   proposal   defines 
clear   qualitative   and   quantitative 
indicators to track the impact of the project 
results; 
Measuring impact consists   of   tracking the positive 
effects of   the project results   beyond the fact of   having 
produced them . Impact   is   an effect of using   the   results 
and   it   should   therefore start during the project and 
continue beyond the project duration. 
The e xpert must assess whether the proposed 
indicators   are relevant, credible, clear and robust. 
Long - term impact: 
-   the   project   proposal   includes 
concrete   and   logical   steps   to 
integrate the project results in the 
regular   work   of   participating 
organisations; 
-   the   project   includes a clear plan 
and preparation to continue using 
its results after the project; 
The   assessment of this element   is   based on   a 
perspective that goes beyond the project period.   The 
experts should assess if the proposed long - term 
impact plan is realistic, well - developed, and concrete. 
Transferable   results:   the   planned 
project   results   can   be   used   outside   the 
participating   organisations   at   local, 
regional, national or European level; 
The project results have the potential to be transferred 
to   and   used by other organisations in the participating 
countries (e.g. other schools under the responsibility 
of the same school authority, other school authorities 
in the same or different regions), as well as in   other 
countries. 
Sharing results:   the project proposal 
includes concrete and effective steps to 
make the results of the project known 
within the participating organisations, to 
share the results with other organisations 
and the public, and to publicly 
acknowledge the European Union fundin g. 
The planned activities for sharing results are 
appropriate and will promote the use of the results at 
local, regional, national and/or European level.   If the 
project foresees tangible results and deliverables, 
participating organisations will allow open access to 
materials, documents and media produced within the 
project.   If the proposal foresees limitations to open 
access, they are not disproportionate and will not 
significantly affect the dissemination and possible 
impact of the project.

--- Sayfa 70 ---
70 
How to assess the cost - effectiveness of   a   project   proposal ? 
Given the diverse nature of all the fields covered in the programme, the needs and type 
of activities   presented by the applicants   differ. It is therefore left to the applicants to 
describe the planned activities   which are   adequate for their respective objectives and 
fit   within the funding level   of the   chosen   lump sum .   Such choice is   based on the level 
of complexity and ambition of their proposal, considering elements such as the number 
of partners, the duration of the project and the number and type of proposed activities . 
A   high degree of flexibility is left to applicants to define their targets in line with the 
programme objectives and build their project around the requested   lump sum   budget. 
The   applicants are   therefore   not required to provide detailed cost estimate (staff costs, 
equipment, management costs, etc.   Nevertheless, they are   required to provide evidence 
for the elements of value for money in their application, showing that the amount 
requested is adequate to the content and objectives of their proposed activities.   For this 
purpose, they are   required to indicate the portion of the lump sum that they intend to 
allocate to the production of each of the outputs (work packages and activities). 
Experts assess the value for money at the level of each   eligible activity and   work 
package and at the level of the entire project,   including annexes   and   as   part of   scoring 
the award criterion ‘Quality of the project design and implementation’.   P roposals which 
are found to offer poor value for money will have a lower score and fewer chances to 
be selected for funding.   In case the expert finds the proposed deliverables entirely 
insufficient to justify the total requested grant, award criterion ‘Quality of project design 
and   implementation’   should   be   scored   below   the   minimum   threshold   (half   of   the 
maximum points of the award criterion)   and   consequently, the proposal   should   be 
rejected . 
In addition to assessing the cost - effectiveness of the entire project, the expert needs to 
take into account the funding that applicants have proposed to allocate to each work 
package/activity. For this purpose, the key aspect to consider is the explanatio n that 
applicants   have   provided   about   the   composition   of   costs   included   in   the   work 
package/activity. At the level of work packages/activities, experts should also use the 
comparison method both within a project and with other projects to contextualise the 
explanations provided by the applicants. 
The resources to be allocated by the applicant to each work package and/or activity 
must show a balance between cost - effectiveness and the delivery of good quality. In 
particular, crucial aspects referred to in award criteria (inclusion, integration of res ults, 
monitoring) must be adequately addressed. 
For the Cooperation partnerships   and European   Partnerships for   School   Development , 
all the activities directly linked to the management of the project shall be included in a 
specific work package (project management work package). This work package can 
represent maximum 20% of the requested budget   for the other work packages . 
For the Small - scale partnerships, the budget   allocated to   the planning, organisation and 
management of the activities   is to   be covered with the amounts allocated to each of the 
project activities. Experts shall also take this aspect into account in their assessment. 
Based on experience of similar actions in the Erasmus+ programme, around 20% of the 
project requested lump sum is   typically used for project management expenses. The 
reference value of 20% needs to be assessed in a flexible manner, considering t hat 
costs related to setting up and managing a project may vary from one applicant to the 
other function to their e.g. dimension, available resources, etc.   Therefore, experts   may 
deem it acceptable that smaller projects can use a larger portion of their budget to cover

--- Sayfa 71 ---
71 
the horizontal costs.   The list below presents some examples for the approximate grant 
amounts attributed to typical activities in the 2014 - 2020 Programming period: 
-   Project meeting   with 8 participants: 4.500   –   6.000 EUR 
-   Event   with   100   participants: 10.000   –   20.000 EUR 
-   Mobility   of 20 participants for 10 days: 22.000   –   35.000 EUR 
-   Language training   for 20 participants: about 3.000 EUR 
The actual cost of a specific activity proposed in an application may vary depending on 
factors such as travel distances, labour costs in different countries, involvement of 
participants   with   fewer   opportunities,   choosing   more   environmentally   sustainable 
s ervices   and   products,   etc. This   is   why the   applicants are   requested   to   provide a 
breakdown and explanation of their expected costs in the application form. The experts 
should use the information provided by the applicant when assessing if higher than 
avera ge costs are justified, or if lower than average costs are realistic for a certain 
activity. 
In case of strong doubts about the value for money of an activity or the entire project, 
where the professional judgment of the expert alone is not sufficient, or in case of 
serious disagreement between two experts, a comparison with similar activities bet ween 
projects and with previous projects funded under the action Strategic Partnerships in 
the Erasmus + programme 2014 - 2020 can be made as part of a consolidation exercise. 
Using this reference shall only be used as a methodological support, using the nec essary 
degree of flexibility and proportionality to make the assessment fair and accurate.

--- Sayfa 72 ---
72 
6. Reference policy documents 
Transversal policy priorities for education, training ,   youth   and sport 
▪   Overall policy priorities 
-   European Education Area   -   Council Resolution on a strategic framework for 
European cooperation in education and training towards the European Education 
Area and beyond (2021 - 2030): 
https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/48584/st06289 - re01 - en21.pdf 
-   EU Youth Strategy   –   Council Resolution   on a framework for European cooperation in 
the youth field: The European Union Youth Strategy 2019 - 2027 
https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legalcontent/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=OJ:C:2018:456:FULL&from=EN 
-   Commission Implementing Decision   -   framework of inclusion measures of 
Erasmus+ and European Solidarity Corps 2021 - 27:   Commission Implementing 
Decision   -   framework of inclusion measures of Erasmus+ and European Solidarity 
Corps 2021 - 27 | Erasmus+ (europa.eu) 
-   Erasmus+ and European Solidarity Corps Inclusion and Diversity Strategy: 
Implementation guidelines   -   Erasmus+ and European Solidarity Corps Inclusion   and 
Diversity Strategy | Erasmus+ (europa.eu) 
-   2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development   of the United Nations: 
http://ec.europa.eu/environment/sustainable - development/SDGs/index_en.htm 
-   Rethinking Education: Investing in skills for better socio - economic outcomes: 
http://eur - lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2012:0669:FIN:EN:PDF 
-   The EU Youth report:   http://ec.europa.eu/youth/policy/implementation/report_en.htm 
-   Declaration on Promoting citizenship and the common values of freedom, tolerance 
and non - discrimination through education 
http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/education_culture/repository/education/news/2015/docu 
ments/citizenship - education - declaration_en.pdf 
-   Investing in Europe's Youth: 
http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=950&langId=en 
-   The European Skills Agenda COM(2020) 274 final: 
http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1223&langId=en 
-   Commission communication "Strengthening European Identity through Education 
and Culture The European Commission's contribution to the Leaders' meeting in 
Gothenburg" (2017) 
http://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - content/EN/TXT/?uri=COM%3A2017%3A673%3AFIN 
-   Council Recommendation on Key Competences for Lifelong Learning, Official 
Journal, 2018/C 189/01 
https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legalcontent/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32018H0604%2801%29 
-   Commission communication   “ The Union of Skills ” :   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/en/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX%3A52025DC0090 
-   Council Recommendation “Europe on the Move   –   Learning mobility   opportunities   for 
everyone”:   https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST - 9804 - 2024 - INIT/en/pdf 
-   EN EUROPEAN COMMISSION Brussels, 5.3.2025 COM(2025) 89 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE 
COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL 
COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS A: 
STEM_Education_Strategic_Plan_COM_2025_89_1_EN_0.pdf 
▪   Recognition and transparency 
-   Europass:   http://europass.cedefop.europa.eu/en/home

--- Sayfa 73 ---
73 
-   European Qualifications Framework:   http://ec.europa.eu/eqf/home_en.htm 
-   Youthpass:   https://www.youthpass.eu/en/youthpass/ 
-   Council   Recommendation   on   promoting   automatic   mutual   recognition   of   higher 
education and upper secondary education and training qualifications and the outcomes 
of learning periods abroad (2018) 
http://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST - 14081 - 2018 - INIT/en/pdf 
-   Validation: Council Recommendation of 20 December 2012 on the validation of non - 
formal and informal learning https://eur - 
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:C:2012:398:0001:0005:EN:PDF 
-   Validation:   Staff   Working   Document   on   the   evaluation   of   the   2012   Council 
Recommendation on validation 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=22839&langId=en 
▪   Digital   e ducation 
-   The Future of Learning: New Ways to Learn New Skills for Future Jobs: 
http://is.jrc.ec.europa.eu/pages/EAP/ForCiel.html 
-   Digital Competence Framework for Citizens (DigComp): 
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/digcomp 
-   Digital Competence Framework for Educators (DigCompEdu): 
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/digcompedu 
-   A collection of articles from Open Education Europa: 
https://www.schooleducationgateway.eu/en/pub/resources/oee.htm 
-   Open Educational Resources and practices in Europe: 
http://is.jrc.ec.europa.eu/pages/EAP/OEREU.html 
-   Digital Education Action Plan: 
http://ec.europa.eu/education/education-in-the-eu/digital-education-action-plan_en 
▪   Development of k ey   c ompetences 
-   Brochure on Key Competences for lifelong learning: 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/297a33c8 - a1f3 - 11e9 - 
9d01-01aa75ed71a1/language-en 
-   Council Recommendation of 22 May 2018 on key competences for lifelong learning, 
Official Journal 2018/C 189/01 
-   Commission Staff Working Document accompanying the document proposal for a 
Council Recommendation on Key Competences for Lifelong Learning, SWD (2018)14, 
https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52018SC0014 
-   European Commission (2020) LifeComp: The European Framework for Personal, Social 
and Learning to Learn Key Competence. 
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/publication/eur - scientific - and - technical - research - 
reports/lifecomp - european - framework - personal - social - and - learning - learn - key - competence 
-   Cultural awareness and expression handbook: Open method   of coordination (OMC) 
working group of EU Member States’ experts on ‘cultural awareness and expression’ 
(2016). 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/6066c082 - e68a - 11e5 - 8a50 - 
01aa75ed71a1 
-   European   Commission   (2016)   EntreComp:   The   Entrepreneurship   Competence 
Framework. https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/publication/eur - scientific - and - technical - research - 
reports/entrecomp - entrepreneurship - competence - framework 
-   Council conclusions of 26 November 2012 on literacy:

--- Sayfa 74 ---
74 
http://eur - lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:C:2012:393:   0001:0004:EN:PDF 
-   Final Report of the EU High Level Group of experts on Literacy (2012): 
http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/education_culture/repository/education/policy/school/doc/ 
literacy - report_en.pdf 
-   Addressing the gender gap in STEM education across educational levels   -   Publications Office of 
the EU 
-   JRC Publications Repository   -   STEM competencies, challenges, and measurements: a literature 
review 
-   JRC Publications Repository   -   STEM and STEAM education, and disciplinary integration: a guide 
to informed policy action 
▪   Language   l earning 
-   Commission Staff Working Document, 2012: "Language Competences for 
employability, mobility and growth: 
http://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52012SC037 
2&from=EN 
-   Improving the effectiveness of language learning   –   CLIL and Computer - assisted 
Language learning, 2014: 
http://ec.europa.eu/assets/eac/languages/library/studies/clil - call_en.pdf 
-   Rethinking language education in schools, 2017   - 
https://publications.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/de1c9041 - 25a7 - 11e8 - 
ac73 - 01aa75ed71a1/ 
-   Migrants in European schools   –   learning and maintaining languages, 2017 
https://publications.europa.eu/resource/cellar/c0683c22 - 25a8 - 11e8 - ac73 - 
01aa75ed71a1.0001.01/DOC_1&ved=2ahUKEwiR5JvmucmRAxU1VfEDHYx4McgQFn 
oECBgQAQ&usg=AOvVaw2eDA0J - 32CgIklCggWMjg_ 
-   Multilingual education in the light of diversity   –   lessons learned, 2017 
http://nesetweb.eu/wp - content/uploads/2015/08/Multilingualism - Report.pdf 
-   The future of language education in Europe   –   Case studies of innovative practices, 
2020 
https://nesetweb.eu/en/news/neset - reviews - the - innovative - practices - in - europes - language - 
education/ 
-   Education begins with language, 2020   https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - 
/publication/6b7e2851 - b5fb - 11ea - bb7a - 01aa75ed71a1/language - en 
-   Council recommendation on a comprehensive approach to the teaching and learning 
of languages, 2019   https://ec.europa.eu/education/education - in - the - eu/council - 
recommendation - improving - teaching - and - learning - languages_en

--- Sayfa 75 ---
75 
Policy priorities in school education 
General policy information relevant for all project proposals: 
•   Commission Communication on Achieving the European Education Area and the 
subsequent Council Resolution on a Strategic Framework for European cooperation 
in education and training towards the European Education Area and beyond (2021 - 
2030)   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2021.066.01.0001.01.ENG 
•   Council   Recommendation   on   blended   learning   approaches   for   high - quality   and 
inclusive   primary   and   secondary   education   (2021)   education 
https://eur https://myintracomm - collab.ec.europa.eu/dg/EAC/B.4/Horizontal 
Tasks/education   https:/eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/en/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32021H1214(01) lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/en/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021H1214%2801%29 
•   Support   to   implementation   of   the   2021   Council   Recommendation   through   the 
Working Group on Schools   -   thematic report and factsheet   Blended learning for 
inclusion   -   Publications Office of the EU (europa.eu) 
-   Learning   for   the   green   transition   and   sustainable   development .   Council 
Recommendation   adopted   on   16   June   2022.   Implementation   tools:   peer   learning 
(dedicated   Working   Group,   Education   for   Climate   Coalition   under   Erasmus+, 
GreenComp community of practices); funding; dissemination of resources   https://eur - 
lex.europa.eu/legal - content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32022H0627%2801%29 
-   28   November 2022:   Council adopted a   Recommendation on Pathways to 
School Success .   Pathways to School Success | European Education Area (europa.eu) 
•   Council Resolution of the European Education Area 
•   Education and Training Monitor 2024 
•   Education and Training Monitor 2023 
•   Education and Training Monitor 2022 
•   DigCompEdu framework   -   https://europa.eu/! K4xkfK 
Tackling   learning disadvantage,   early school leaving   and low proficiency 
in basic skills 
•   Early   School   Leaving:   https://education.ec.europa.eu/education - levels/school - 
education/early - school - leaving 
•   European Toolkit for Schools ‘Promoting inclusive education and tackling early 
school leaving’:   https://school - education.ec.europa.eu/en/insights/school - 
success - for - all 
•   NESET Report: The impact of COVID - 19 on the education of disadvantaged 
children and the socio - economic consequences thereof (2022): 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/b43aac1a - cc1b - 11ec - 
b6f4 - 01aa75ed71a1/language - en/format - PDF/source - 260381074 
•   A systemic, whole - school approach to mental health and well - being in schools in the EU 
(2023):   https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/200445c0 - 227d - 11ec - bd8e - 
01aa75ed71a1/language - en/format - PDF/source - 251233369

--- Sayfa 76 ---
76 
•   Commission study on the assessment of the implementation of the 2011 Council 
recommendation on policies to reduce early school leaving (2019): 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/72f0303e - cf8e - 11e9 - 
b4bf01aa75ed71a1/language - en 
•   OECD PISA 2022 Results (2022):   https://www.oecd.org/publication/resultats - du - 
pisa - 2022/#resultatspisa2022 
•   Commission Report on PISA and the EU (2018 ): 
https://ec.europa.eu/education/news/pisa - 2018_en 
•   Eurydice, Equity in Education (2020): 
https://eacea.ec.europa.eu/nationalpolicies/eurydice/content/equity - school - 
education - europe_en 
•   A   whole   school   approach   to   tackling   early   school   leaving:   Policy   messages, 
https://education.ec.europa.eu/sites/default/files/document - library - docs/early - 
school - leaving - group2015 - policy - messages_en.pdf 
•   NESET Report on   A formative, inclusive, whole school approach to the assessment 
of Social and Emotional Education in the EU (2020): 
https://nesetweb.eu/en/resources/library/a - formative - inclusive - whole - 
schoolapproach - to - the - assessment - of - social - and - emotional - education - in - the - eu - 2/ 
Supporting teachers, school leaders   and   other   teaching professions 
•   EENEE - NESET Report (2023): Evidence - based Solutions to Teacher Shortages: 
https://nesetweb.eu/wp - content/uploads/2023/08/EENEE - NESET - joint - analytical - 
report - No - 1.pdf 
•   Eurydice (2021) “Teachers in Europe   –   Careers, Development and Well - being” 
https://eacea.ec.europa.eu/national https://eacea.ec.europa.eu/national - 
policies/eurydice/sites/eurydice/files/teachers_in_europe_2020_1.pdf policies/eurydice/sit 
es/eurydice/files/teachers_in_europe_2020_1.pdf 
•   “Supporting teacher and school leader careers: a policy guide” (2020). Report of 
the ET2020 Working Group Schools. Also available: Summary and four Infosheets. 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/6e4c89eb - 7a0b - 
11ea https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/6e4c89eb-7a0b-11ea-b75f- 
01aa75ed71a1/language-en b75f - 01aa75ed71a1/language - e n .   Also overview and 
video available at: 
•   Council conclusions “European Teachers and Trainers for the Future”, adopted on 
26 May 2020:   https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/44115/st08269 - en20.pdf 
•   Council Resolution on a Strategic Framework for European cooperation in 
education and training towards the European Education Area and beyond (2021 - 
2030)   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2021.066.01.0001.01.ENG 
•   Commission Communication on Achieving the European Education Area 
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/news/towards - european - education - area - 
2025 https://ec.europa.eu/commission/news/towards - european - education - area - 2025 - 2017 - 
nov - 14_en 2017 - nov - 14_en

--- Sayfa 77 ---
77 
•   Commission’s 2020 Digital Education Action Plan for 2021 - 27: 
https://ec.europa.eu/education/education - in - the - eu/digital - education - 
action https://ec.europa.eu/education/education - in - the - eu/digital - education - action - 
plan_en plan_en 
•   OECD TALIS 2018 report :   TALIS   -   The OECD Teaching and Learning International 
Survey   -   OECD 
•   OECD TALIS 2024 :   Results from TALIS 2024 | OECD 
• 
•   Attracting and retaining teachers and school leaders: a guide for career frameworks (2023): 
https://school - education.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2023 - 02/Guide - to - career - 
frameworks.pdf 
•   Communication on Achieving the European Education Area (EEA) by 2025 
•   2020 Council conclusions: European teachers and trainers for the Future 
•   2021 Eurydice report: Teachers in Europe: Careers,   Development and Well - being 
•   SELFIE for TEACHERS   -   https://education.ec.europa.eu/selfie - for - teachers 
•   SELFIE for Schools:   https://education.ec.europa.eu/selfie 
Promoting a comprehensive approach to language teaching and learning 
•   NESET ad hoc report on the interventions supporting language learning needs of newly 
arrived migrant and displaced children   (2022)   :   https://nesetweb.eu/en/news/new - neset - ad - 
hoc - report - on - the - interventions - supporting - language - learning - needs - of - newly - arrived - 
migrant - and - displaced - children/ 
•   Eurydice Report   -   Key data on teaching languages at school in Europe (2023): 
https://eurydice.eacea.ec.europa.eu/publications/key - data - teaching - languages - school - 
europe - 2023 - edition 
•   Education begins with language   -   Thematic report from a programme of seminars with peer 
learning to support the implementation of the Council Recommendation on a comprehensive 
approach to the teaching and learning of languages (2019 - 2020) : 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/6b7e2851 - b5fb - 11ea - bb7a - 
01aa75ed71a1/language - en 
•   NESET Report   -   The future of language education in Europe: case studies of innovative 
practices   (2020):   https://nesetweb.eu/en/resources/library/the - future - of - language - 
education - in - europe - case - studies - of - innovative - practices/ 
•   Council recommendation on improving the teaching and learning of languages 
(201 9) :   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?toc=OJ:C:2019:189:TOC&uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2019.189.01.0015. 
01.ENG

--- Sayfa 78 ---
78 
Developing high quality early childhood   education   and care systems 
•   Council   Recommendation   for   high   quality   early   childhood   education   and   care 
systems,   and   its   Annex,   the   European   Quality   Framework: 
https://ec.europa.eu/education/education - in - the - eu/council - recommendation - 
on https://ec.europa.eu/education/education - in - the - eu/council - recommendation - on - high - 
quality - early - childhood - education - and - care - systems_en high - quality - early - childhood - 
education - and - care - systems_en 
•   Toolkit   for   inclusive ECEC (2021):   https://op.europa.eu/s/oVdh 
•   Report   on   How   to   recruit,   train   and   motivate   well - qualified   ECEC   staff: 
https://op.europa.eu/s/oVdi 
•   Thematic   reports   on   Monitoring   and   evaluating   quality   in   ECEC: 
https://wikis.ec.europa.eu/spaces/EAC/pages/48761832/ECEC+Documents 
• 
Erasmus+ and ECEC: project results and analysis:   https://op.europa.eu/s/oVdj 
•   Quality in early childhood education and care (ECEC: state of play in the EU Member 
States   based   on   the   European   Quality   Framework:   https://education - 
socioeconomic - experts.ec.europa.eu/publications/analytical - reports/quality - early - 
childhood - education - and - care - ecec - state - play - eu - member - states - based - 
european - quality_en 
•   Working with multilingual children and families in early childhood education and 
care   (ECEC):   https://education - socioeconomic - 
experts.ec.europa.eu/publications/analytical - reports/working - multilingual - 
children - and - families - early - childhood - education - and - care - ecec_en 
•   Key   date   on   early   childhood   education   and   care   in   Europe   (Eurydice): 
https://eurydice.eacea.ec.europa.eu/publications/key - data - early - childhood - 
education - and - care - europe - 2025 
• 
•   Further background reading can be found on the Early childhood education and care 
(ECEC) website on Europa : 
http://ec.europa.eu/education/policies/early - childhood - education - and - care_en 
Recognition   of learning   outcomes for participants in cross - border learning 
mobility 
-   Council Recommendation on   promoting automatic mutual recognition of higher 
education and upper secondary education and training qualifications and the 
outcomes of learning periods abroad (2018) 
http://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST - 14081 - 2018 - INIT/en/pdf 
•   Commission Staff Working Document accompanying the document Proposal for a 
Council Recommendation on promoting automatic mutual recognition 
https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?qid=1544015635957&uri=CELEX:52018SC0170 
•   Recognition of learning periods abroad in general secondary education :   Outputs by 
the Expert Network on Recognition of outcomes of learning periods abroad in 
general secondary education 
Recognition of learning periods abroad in general secondary education | ESEP 
(europa.eu)

--- Sayfa 79 ---
79 
•   REPORT FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL on the implementation of the 
Council Recommendation on promoting automatic mutual recognition of higher 
education and upper secondary education and training qualifications and the 
outcomes of learning periods abroa d 
EUR - Lex   -   52023DC0091   -   EN   -   EUR - Lex (europa.eu) 
o   Implementation of the 2018 Council Recommendation on promoting 
automatic mutual recognition of higher education and upper secondary 
education and training qualifications and the outcomes of learning periods 
abroad   -   Executive summary 
Implementation of the 2018 Council Recommendation on promoting automatic 
mutual recognition of higher education and upper secondary education and 
training qualifications and the outcomes of learning periods abroad   - 
Publications Office of the EU (europa.eu ) 
Council conclusions on further steps to make automatic mutual recognition in 
education and training a reality 
EUR - Lex   -   52023XG0526(03)   -   EN   -   EUR - Lex (europa.eu) 
Policy priorities in vocational education and training (VET) 
-   The European Pillar of Social Rights: 
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/priorities/deeper - and - fairer - economic - and - monetary - 
union/european - pillar - social - rights_en 
-   The European Pillar of Social Rights Action Plan: 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=23696&langId=en 
-   The   European   Skills Agenda   COM(2020) 274 final: 
http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1223&langId=en 
-   The Council Recommendation on VET for sustainable competitiveness, social 
fairness and resilience: 
https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?qid=1606987593071&uri=CELEX%3A32020H1202%2801%29 
-   Factsheet   -   Vocational education and training: a future - proof approach (2020) 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=22828&langId=en 
-   Osnabrück Declaration on vocational education and training as an enabler of 
recovery   and just transitions to digital and green economies: 
https://www.cedefop.europa.eu/files/osnabrueck_declaration_eu2020.pdf 
-   Communication: Youth Employment Support   -   a Bridge to Jobs for the Next 
Generation (2020) 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=22781&langId=en 
-   Council Recommendation of 30 October 2020 on A Bridge to Jobs   –   Reinforcing the 
Youth Guarantee and replacing the Council Recommendation of 22 April 2013 on 
establishing a Youth Guarantee 2020/C 372/01   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2020.372.01.0001.01.ENG&toc=OJ:C:2020:372:TOC 
-   The European Framework for quality and effective apprenticeships: 
http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?langId=en&catId=89&newsId=2873 
-   European Alliance for Apprenticeships: 
http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1147 
-   Work-based learning:

--- Sayfa 80 ---
80 
High - performance apprenticeships & work - based learning: 20 guiding principles : 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/8f010ea2 - 265b - 
11e7 https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/8f010ea2 - 265b - 11e7 - ab65 - 
01aa75ed71a1/language - en ab65 - 01aa75ed71a1/language - en 
-   Work - based Learning Handbook 
http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/education_culture/repository/education/policy/vocational - 
policy/doc/alliance/work - based - learning - in - europe_en.pdf 
-   Reports on apprenticeships:   http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1147   - 
EQAVET: 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1536&langId=en 
https://www.cedefop.europa.eu/files/3068_en.pdf 
-   Platforms of Centres of Vocational Excellence (COVE): 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/vocational - excellence 
-   European Commission mapping study on approaches to Centres of Vocational 
Excellence: 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=738&langId=en&pubId=8250 
-   ET2020 Working group on VET, report on Innovation and digitalisation in Vocational 
Education and Training (2020): 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=23274&langId=en 
-   The Joint Research Centre report on Vocational education and smart specialisation 
strategies: 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/b0e5b94f - 748c - 
11ea https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/b0e5b94f - 748c - 11ea - a07e - 
01aa75ed71a1/language - en/format - PDF/ a07e - 01aa75ed71a1/language - en/format - PDF/ 
-   The European Training Foundation (ETF) international study on “Centres of 
vocational excellence   -   An engine for vocational education and training 
development: 
https://op.europa.eu/en/publication - detail/ - /publication/40adf905 - ee57 - 11ea - 
991b - 01aa75ed71a1/language - en/format - PDF 
-   Entrepreneurship 2020 Action Plan -   http://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal http://eur- 
lex.europa.eu/legal- 
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52012DC0795 content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52012DC07 
95 
-   Entrepreneurship education: A Guide for Educators (2014): 
https://ec.europa.eu/docsroom/documents/7465/attachments/1/translations/en/re 
nditions/pdf 
-   Towards Greater Cooperation and Coherence in Entrepreneurship Education"   – 
Report of the High Level Reflection Panels on Entrepreneurship Education initiated 
by Directorate General Enterprise and Industry and Directorate General Education 
and Culture (2015 ): 
https://ec.europa.eu/docsroom/documents/9269/attachments/1/translations/en/re 
nditions/pdf 
More information can be found at:   https://ec.europa.eu/education/policies/eu - policy - 
in - the - field - of - vocational - education https://ec.europa.eu/education/policies/eu - policy - in - the - 
field - of - vocational - education - and - training - vet_en and - training - vet_en 
http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1146&langId=en

--- Sayfa 81 ---
81 
Policy priorities in higher education 
-   European strategy for universities:   Commission Communication on a European strategy for 
universities | European Education Area (europa.eu) 
-   European student card initiative:   European Student Card Initiative | Erasmus+ (europa.eu) 
-   European Universities Initiative   :   European Universities initiative | European Education Area 
(europa.eu) 
-   Automatic mutual recognition:   EUR - Lex   -   32018H1210(01)   -   EN   -   EUR - Lex (europa.eu) 
-   Micro - credentials:   A European approach to micro - credentials | European Education Area 
(europa.eu) 
-   Building bridges fo r   effective European higher education cooperation 
EUR - Lex   -   32022H0413(01)   -   EN   -   EUR - Lex (europa.eu) 
More information can be found at:   Higher education | European Education Area (europa.eu) 
Policy priorities in adult education 
-   The European Pillar of Social Rights:   https://ec.europa.eu/commission/priorities/deeper - 
and - fairer - economic - and - monetary - union/european - pillar - social - rights_en 
-   The European Pillar of Social Rights Action Plan: 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=23696&langId=en 
-   The   European   Skills Agenda   COM(2020) 274 final: 
http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1223&langId=en 
-   Adult skills   -   Individual Learning Accounts :   a tool to improve access to training; 
SWD(2021); 
-   Council Resolution on a   new European agenda for adult learning   2021 - 2030, 
https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:32021G1214(01)&from=EN 
-   Recommendation on Upskilling Pathways (2016):   http://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?uri=OJ:JOC_2016_484_R_0001 
http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1224 
-   Staff Working Document on Recommendation on Upskilling Pathways: New 
Opportunities for Adults   Taking stock of implementation measures: 
https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/file_import/implementation - 
report https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/file_import/implementation - report - 
upskilling - pathways_en.pdf upskilling - pathways_en.pdf 
-   Council conclusions on the implementation of the Council Recommendation on 
Upskilling Pathways:   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52019XG0605(01) 
-   Promoting adult learning:   http://ec.europa.eu/education/policy/adult - 
learning/adult_en.htm 
-   Career guidance; 
https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=738&langId=en&pubId=8284&furtherP 
ubs=yes 
-   PIAAC,   the survey of adult skills:   http://www.oecd.org/skills/piaac/ 
-   Working group on adult learning :   opening up opportunities for all (AL); 
https://education.ec.europa.eu/about/working - groups

--- Sayfa 82 ---
82 
Policy priorities in the field of youth 
-   Report from the   Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European 
Social and Economic Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the 
implementation of the EU Youth Strategy (2019 - 2021):   https://eur - 
lex.europa.eu/legal - content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52021DC0636&from=ES 
-   Council Resolution on a framework for European cooperation in the youth field: The 
European Union Youth Strategy 2019 - 2027   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?uri=OJ:C:2018:456:FULL 
-   Resolution of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the 
Member States meeting within the Council on the Framework   for establishing a 
European Youth Work Agenda   https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2020.415.01.0001.01.ENG 
-   “Signpost for the future”   –   Final declaration of the 3 rd   European Youth Work 
Convention 
https://www.eywc2020.eu/en/convention/final - declaration/ 
-   Conclusions of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the 
Member States meeting within the Council on Digital Youth Work   https://eur - 
lex.europa.eu/legal https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2019.414.01.0002.01.ENG&toc=OJ:C:2019:414:TOC co 
ntent/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.C_.2019.414.01.0002.01.ENG&toc=OJ%3AC 
%   3A2019%3A414%3ATOC 
-   Conclusions of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the 
Member States meeting within the Council on education and training of youth workers 
https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - 
content/EN/TXT/?toc=OJ:C:2019:412:FULL&uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2019.412.01.0012.01.ENG co 
ntent/EN/TXT/?toc=OJ%3AC%3A2019%3A412%3AFULL&uri=uriserv%3AOJ.C_. 
2   019.412.01.0012.01.ENG 
-   EU and Council of Europe Partnership in the field of youth, page on youth work 
recognition:   https://pjp - eu.coe.int/en/web/youth - partnership/recognition 
-   Proposal of   Council Recommendation on the mobility of young volunteers across 
the European Union   com_2022_15_1_en_act_part1_v4.pdf (europa.eu) 
-   Decision (EU) 2021/2316 of the European Parliament and of the Council of   22 
December 2021 on a European Year of Youth (2022) 
https://eur - lex.europa.eu/legal - content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32021D2316 Youth 
-   Inclusion and Strategy Roadmap   https://www.salto - youth.net/downloads/4 - 17 - 
4247/ID_roadmap.pdf 
-   European Training Strategy 2021 - 2027 
http://www.salto - youth.net/download/4265/European_Training_Strategy_2021 - 
2027_singlepage.pdf 
-   Youth Participation Strategy   https://www.salto - youth.net/rc/participation/ypstrategy/ 
-   Youthpass strategy   https://www.youthpass .eu/en/about - youthpass/youthpass - 
strategy/ 
More information can be found at:   http://ec.europa.eu/youth/index_en.htm

--- Sayfa 83 ---
83 
Policy priorities in the field of sport 
-   EU Work Plan for Sport 2021-2024:   EUR-Lex - 42020Y1204(01) - EN - EUR-Lex
(europa.eu) 
-   Towards more gender equality in sport   : recommendations and action plan from 
the High Level group on Gender Equality in sport :   Towards more gender equality 
in sport   -   Publications Office of the EU (europa.eu) 
-   COUNCIL Recommendation on HEPA (health - enhancing physical activity):   EUR - Lex 
-   32013H1204(01)   -   EN   -   EUR - Lex (europa.eu) 
-   Guidelines regarding the minimum requirements in skills and competences for 
coaches   -   Publications Office of the EU (europa.eu) 
-   Safeguarding children in sport   -   Publications Office of the EU (europa.eu) 
-   Mapping on access to sport for people with disabilities   -   Publications Office of the 
EU (europa.eu) 
-   Mapping of corruption in sport in the EU   -   Publications Office of the EU (europa.eu)

--- Sayfa 84 ---
84 
Annex I   -   Declaration on   absence of   conflict of interest s 
and   on   confidentiality 
DECLARATION ON   ABSENCE OF   CONFLICT OF INTERESTS 
AND   O N   CONFIDENTIALITY 
[Erasmus+], [Call for Proposals N° [XXX], [action], [selection round [final submission 
date]] 
C onflict of interests 
I, the undersigned   [FAMILY NAME, first name] , having been appointed as an expert for 
the abovementioned call, declare that : 
I am aware of Article 61 of the   EU   Financial Regulation   2024/2509 , which states that: 
"1. Financial actors within the meaning of Chapter 4 of this Title and other persons, including 
national authorities at any level, involved in budget implementation under direct, indirect and 
shared management, including acts preparatory thereto, audit or   control, shall not take any 
action which may bring their own interests into conflict with those of the Union. They shall also 
take appropriate measures to prevent a conflict of interests from arising in the functions under 
their responsibility and to addre ss situations which may objectively be perceived as a conflict 
of interests. 
2.   Where there is a risk of a conflict of interests involving a member of staff of a national 
authority, the person in question shall refer the matter to his or her hierarchical superior. 
Where such a risk exists for staff covered by the Staff Regulations, th e person in question shall 
refer the matter to the relevant authorising officer by delegation. The relevant hierarchical 
superior or the authorising officer by delegation shall confirm in writing whether a conflict of 
interests is found to exist. Where a c onflict of interests is found to exist, the appointing 
authority or the relevant national authority shall ensure that the person in question ceases all 
activity in the matter. The relevant authorising officer by delegation or the relevant national 
authorit y shall ensure that any further appropriate action is taken in accordance with the 
applicable law. 
3.   For the purposes of paragraph 1, a conflict of interests exists where the impartial and 
objective exercise of the functions of a financial actor or other person, as referred to in 
paragraph 1, is compromised for reasons involving family, emotional life, po litical or national 
affinity, economic interest or any other direct or indirect personal interest." 
I do not fall under any of the following circumstances in which a conflict of interests 
might exist. I confirm that, if I discover before or during the performance of my tasks 
that a conflict of interests exists, I will declare it immediately to the   National Agency . 
Disqualifying   conflict of interest s : 
   Direct benefit in case of advice on development of a new policy; 
   Involvement in the preparation of the proposal (s) ; 
   Direct benefit in case of acceptance of the proposal (s) ; 
   Close family relationship with any person representing a participating organisation in the 
proposal (s) ;

--- Sayfa 85 ---
85 
   Director, trustee or partner of a participating organisation; 
   Current employment by a participating organisation; 
   Current involvement in a contract or collaboration with a participating organisation; 
   Any other situation that compromises my ability to evaluate the proposal impartially ; 
Potential conflict of interests: 
   Employment by one of the participating organisations within the previous three years; 
   Involvement in a contract or collaboration with a participating organisation within the 
previous three years; 
   Any other situation that could cast doubt on my ability to evaluate the proposal impartially, 
or that could reasonably appear to do so in the eyes of a third party ( Ex.   Past or current 
personal relationships, nationality, political affinity, etc.). 
If applicable   -   I hereby declare that I fall under one or more of the above circumstances (please 
specify which and explain) * : 
* Ex. In case of employment by a structure including different departments or institutes, please 
specify the degree of autonomy between them. 
I hereby declare on my honour that the disclosed information is true and complete to the best 
of my knowledge. 
Confidentiality and personal data protection 
I confirm that I have read, understood and accepted the code of conduct for experts established 
in Annex 1 to the contract sent by the contracting party. 
I also confirm that I will keep all matters entrusted to me confidential and will process the 
personal data I receive only for the purposes of the performance of the present contract. If 
unnecessary or excessive personal data are contained in the documents   submitted during the 
implementation of the contract, I will not process them further or take them into account for 
the implementation of the contract. I will not communicate outside the panel any confidential 
information that is revealed to me or that I h ave discovered. I will not make any adverse use 
of information given to me. I will comply with guidelines provided in section 2.3   –   personal 
data considerations. 
Expert: [ insert full name ] 
Date: 
Signature: