Youth participation activities
This action
 1
 supports activities outside formal education and training that encourage, foster and facilitate young people’s participation in Europe’s democratic life at local, regional, national and European level.
Youth participation is about individual young people and groups of young people having the right, the means, the space, the opportunity and, where necessary, the support to freely express their views, contribute to and influence societal decision making on matters affecting them, and be active within the democratic and civic life of our communities. It is a process in which power is shared with young people, whether in the context of decision-making or other activities addressed by the project.
Objectives of the Action
Erasmus+ supports youth-driven local, national, transnational and international participation projects encouraging youth participation in Europe's democratic life and following one or more of the following objectives:
create opportunities for young people to engage and learn to participate in civic society and political or democratic life, have their opinions heard and their needs considered
develop participatory structures, mechanisms and approaches to provide space, support and means for young people to contribute to and influence decisions that affect them
Supported activities should be aligned with and raise awareness about European common values
 2
 and fundamental rights and address topics of relevance to young people across all aspects of their lives. Supported activities should contribute to increasing young people’s understanding of and interest in engagement with local, regional, national and European institutions and increase competences essential for engaging in democratic processes. Supported activities may also aim to increase the decision-makers’ understanding of the importance of youth participation and raise their competences for communicating with and involving youth in decision-making.
Projects can address various forms of participation and should be implemented in a participatory manner.
Policy context
The European Union Youth Strategy 2019-2027 is the framework for EU cooperation in the youth field based on the 2018 Council Resolution. The Strategy fosters youth participation in democratic life, supports social and civic engagement and aims to ensure that all young people have the necessary resources to take part in society. 
The EU Youth Strategy includes 11 European Youth Goals which identify cross-sectoral areas that affect young people’s lives. 
Under the core area ‘Connect’, the EU Youth Strategy facilitates connections and exchange of experience between young people as a pivotal asset for the future development of the EU. These connections are best fostered through different forms of mobility, such as Youth Exchanges and DiscoverEU. Under ‘Engage’, the Strategy facilitates youth participation through, for example, Youth Participation activities and the EU Youth Dialogue. Under ‘Empower’, the Strategy facilitates quality youth work through, for example, Youth Worker mobility and cooperation, training and networking.
Projects and activities in all formats and sectors can take inspiration from and contribute to the EU Youth Strategy. This can be done by identifying if and how the project contributes to realising
European Youth Goals
EU youth work policy
EU learning mobility policy
Legacy of the European Year of Youth
For support on how projects can be linked with the EU Youth Strategy, please contact your National Agency or the SALTO Resource Centres.
The importance of supporting and developing youth participation also builds on the Convention on the Rights of the Child (1990), especially when it comes to the implementation of Article 12 "The right to be heard", elaborated on in the General Comment No.12 (2009).
Thematic strategies in the youth field
The Erasmus+ Programme seeks to promote youth participation, reinforcement of the quality of informal and non-formal learning processes and development of quality youth work. Further support in these areas is available through specific thematic strategies, such as the Youth Participation Strategy, the Youthpass Strategy and the European Training Strategy (ETS).
Description of the activities
Youth participation activities are non-formal learning activities revolving around active participation of young people. Such activities aim to enable young people to experience exchanges, cooperation, cultural and civic action. Supported activities should help the participants strengthen their personal, social, digital and citizenship competences.
This Action supports the use of diverse forms of youth participation, opening pathways to active participation for young people from all backgrounds.
Youth participation activities can be actively used to conduct dialogues and discussions between young people and decision-makers. These should aim to improve the awareness of decision-makers regarding the importance of discussing with young people and taking into account their needs and opinions, as well as to improve the decision makers competences in this area, with the ultimate goal of ensuring that young people can exercise their right to be involved in all decision-making that impacts them, across all dimensions of their lives. Young people should be able to make their voices heard (through the formulation of positions, proposals and recommendations), especially on how youth policies should be shaped and implemented in Europe. Youth participation activities can also take the form of civic action and youth activism, allowing young people to engage in various ways to raise awareness of issues that matter to them and impose change.
Youth participation activities can be either transnational (implemented in one or more participating countries and involving informal group(s) of young people and/or organisations from several participating countries) or national (implemented at local, regional or national level and involving informal group(s) of young people and/or organisations from a single participating country, depending on the aims of the project and the actors involved. All Youth participation activities, regardless of the level at which they are implemented, should provide an opportunity to reflect on and connect with EU values and topics related to them, infusing each project with the added value of a European dimension.
Supported activities can take the form of (or a combination of): workshops, debates, role-plays, simulations, use of digital tools (e.g. digital democracy tools), awareness raising campaigns, trainings, meetings and other forms of online or offline interaction between young people and decision-makers, consultations, information and/or cultural events etc. 
Some examples of activities that could be implemented within a project are:
face-to-face or online workshops and/or meetings, seminars or other events/processes offering space for information, debate and active participation of young people on issues relevant to their daily lives
consultations of young people identifying topics/issues of specific relevance to them (in local, regional, national or transnational context) and identifying their needs related to participation in addressing such topics/issues
awareness-raising campaigns revolving around participation of young people in democratic life, including information and/or cultural events linked to specific societal challenges relevant to young people
simulations of the functioning of democratic institutions and the roles of decision-makers within such institutions
awareness-raising and competence-building activities for decision-makers on youth participation as a right, its importance and opportunities for implementing across all sectors
A project may consist of a combination of different project activities that together contribute to achieving the planned objectives. Typically, all projects will include activities related to project management, monitoring and assessment of implemented activities, measures related to visibility and dissemination of project results, as well as the main ongoing regular activities of the project. These activities should be financed primarily through the budget category “project management”, which is a monthly unit contribution.
Depending on project scope and objectives, some projects may also include other types of activities, for which additional funding may be available.
Mobility in Youth participation projects may be either national or transnational/international and should always support other project activities.
Projects may also include the organisation of youth participation events. These events can vary in their scope and duration, but they should clearly stand out from the ongoing project management related activities and must be essential for achieving the overall objectives of the project.   Youth participation events (for which specific additional funding is available) should involve the physical presence of a wider target group of young people and/or decision-makers, i.e. they should not be attended only by the members of the informal group or young people in the beneficiary organisations that are directly involved in the overall project activities. Decision-makers can be specifically targeted by some events, insofar as their competence building can contribute to developing more sustainable mechanisms and structures for youth participation and it directly links with the overall objectives of the project. Where necessary, specific support for the organisation of youth participation events is available on a “per participant per event” basis, regardless of the event’s duration. Attendance of an event organised by a third party should not be considered a youth participation event and cannot trigger event-specific funding.
Applicants planning to include youth participation events in the design of their project should define the duration and scope of each event based on the needs of the project and expected achievements, further differentiating between the following two types of events on the basis of their funding needs:
events without a mobility component: These events can be implemented without individual support and travel support for participants as they are not linked to expenditure related to travel or overnight stay(s)
events with a mobility component:  These events require significant travel and/or at least one overnight stay of some or all participants and cannot be implemented without individual support (linked to subsistence) and/or travel support for some or all of the participants.
The following types of activities/costs may not be supported under this Action: statutory meetings of organisations or networks of organisations, organisation of partisan political events, physical infrastructure (e.g. the cost of construction/acquisition of buildings and their permanent equipment).
Examples of projects with a strong participation element (not limited to the format of Youth participation activities) and relevant best practices can be found in the Participation Resource Pool.
Setting up a project
Projects supported by this Action may include various combinations of the elements described above. These elements may be combined in a flexible manner, depending on the objectives of the project and the needs of the participating organisation(s) and participants.
A project is implemented by one or more informal groups of young people
 3
, one or more organisations (with strong involvement of young people), or a combination thereof. The informal group(s) of young people and/or participating organisations must be identified at application stage. To ensure that the involved organisations benefit from their participation, the project should be of relevance for the organisation’s regular work with young people and in line with their objectives and needs. Other young people may be involved in the project as participants in some of the activities or as part of the target group for activities. If only an informal group of young people is involved, one of the group members applies on behalf of the group. If several groups or organisations are involved, one of them takes the role of coordinator and applies for the whole project on behalf of the partnership.
Informal groups of young people can apply for funding for projects independently or they may be supported in (co-)designing a project by an organisation that will apply for a grant on their behalf and later support them in implementing the project.
If deemed necessary, the beneficiary organisation may ask participants in a youth participation activity for a contribution paid by the participants prior to the activity. The amount of the participants’ contribution must be very low, remain proportional to the grant awarded for the implementation of the project, must be clearly justified by a direct benefit to the participant, its purpose well explained and justified to the participants, collected on a non-profit basis, and may not create unfair barriers to participation. Contributions cannot be collected from participants with fewer opportunities. The beneficiary can use the cost category “inclusion support” to cover any specific needs derived from the barriers faced by these participants. Additional fees or other participant contributions cannot be collected by other service providers chosen by the beneficiary organisation. Any contributions collected from the participants must be declared by the beneficiary in the final report.
A project consists of four stages:
Planning (define the needs, objectives, learning outcomes, activity formats, development of work programme, schedule of activities etc.)
Preparation (practical arrangements, set up of agreements with partners, confirmation of the target group(s) of envisaged activities, linguistic/intercultural/learning- and task-related preparation of participants etc.)
Implementation of activities
Follow-up (evaluation of the activities, identification and documentation of the learning outcomes of participants, as well as dissemination and use of the project's outcomes). As a part of the follow-up phase, each project should envisage providing feedback on concrete project outcomes to the young participants, including on how such outcomes have been communicated to other relevant stakeholders and/or used by them.
Participating organisations and young people involved in the activities should take an active role in all those stages. For projects implemented by organisation(s) the extent of involvement of young people in different stages of the project may vary, insofar as it remains aligned with the principles of meaningful participation. The Youth Participation Toolkit can provide practical ideas and guidance on enhancing youth participation. 
EU Youth Dialogue
The topics and priorities identified in the context of the EU Youth Dialogue may serve as inspiration for Youth participation activities at all levels. A similar source of inspiration might be found in the EU Youth Goals developed in the EU Youth Dialogue and which identify cross-sectoral areas affecting young people’s lives and pointing out challenges. Furthermore, results of successful Youth participation activities may be used as input for further stages of the EU Youth Dialogue.
Training and Cooperation Activities (TCAs) are regularly organised by Erasmus+ National Agencies. They include contact seminars, online events, and other partner-finding opportunities for Erasmus+ applicants and beneficiaries. Information about TCAs is available in the European Training Calendar. Inspiration can also be found among SALTO Tools.
Learning Process
A Youth participation activities project needs to envisage support for the reflection process, identification and documentation of individual learning outcomes of all participants [i.e. also participants beyond the informal group(s) of young people implementing the project and/or beyond the young people actively involved in the preparation and implementation of the project], in particular through Youthpass.
Protection and safety of participants
During the planning and preparation of a project, the issue of protection and safety of the participants should be addressed and all necessary measures to prevent/reduce risks should be foreseen.
Community-building
Inclusion of community-building activities in Youth participation activities projects is strongly encouraged. Wherever possible, such activities should strive to survive beyond the duration of supported projects and become self-sustainable.
Erasmus Youth Quality Standards
The implementation of all activities supported under this Action must follow the Erasmus Youth Quality Standards for organising high quality learning mobility activities. The Erasmus Youth Quality Standards cover the basic principles of the Action, as well as concrete implementation practices for project tasks such as selection and preparation of participants, definition, evaluation and recognition of learning outcomes, sharing of project results, etc.
Horizontal dimensions
When designing a project under this action, the following horizontal dimensions must be considered.
Inclusion and diversity
The Erasmus+ Programme seeks to promote equal opportunities and access, inclusion and fairness across all its actions. Applicants should design accessible and inclusive project activities, taking into account the views of participants with fewer opportunities and involving them in the decision-making process.
Youth participation activities are particularly suitable for inclusion of young people with fewer opportunities:
Youth participation activities are designed as a grass-root action format with very flexible parameters (duration, number of participants, national/transnational activities etc.), which can be easily adapted to the specific needs of young people with fewer opportunities;
Young people implementing a Youth participation activities project may be supported by 
 a coach4
. The services of a coach could be particularly relevant and helpful to support young people with fewer opportunities in developing and carrying out their projects.
The objectives of the action include providing young people with opportunities for learning to participate in civic society, as well as creating participatory mechanisms and structures. Projects pursuing these goals can be especially useful for helping young people with fewer opportunities overcome some of the existing barriers and improve their overall involvement in decision-making processes.
Youth participation activities are also particularly suitable to work thematically on inclusion and diversity in society, for example to support fight against stereotypes, foster understanding, tolerance and non-discrimination.
Environmental sustainability
A project should promote environmentally sustainable and responsible behaviour among participants, raising the awareness about the importance of acting to reduce or compensate for the environmental footprint of mobility activities. It should be designed and implemented with environmental consciousness by e.g. integrating sustainable practices such as opting for reusable or eco-friendly materials, reducing waste and recycling, sustainable means of transportation.
Digital transition in the field of youth
The Erasmus+ Programme supports all participating organisations in incorporating the use of digital tools and learning methods to complement their physical activities, to improve the cooperation between partner organisations, and to improve the quality of the activities. The introduction of digital and online elements to lower the threshold for participation of young people with fewer opportunities is encouraged. Through projects and activities that aim to boost digital skills, foster digital literacy and/or develop an understanding of the risks and opportunities of digital technology, the programme can change mindsets and contribute to developing digital and blended approaches in youth activities.
Depending on the design and objectives of the activities, the development of competences and awareness on digital issues, and the use of new technologies (e.g. various e-participation and digital democracy tools) can be included in projects in combination with physical activities. Where virtual components or even fully virtual activities are included in projects in order to facilitate  the involvement of young people with fewer opportunities, duly justified expenses may be financed through the budget category inclusion support for participants.
Participation in democratic life, common values and civic engagement
The Erasmus+ Programme supports all dimensions of participation of young people. Youth participation activities should reinforce young people’s participatory and citizenship skills, social and intercultural competences, as well as improve their critical thinking and media literacy skills. Supported activities should create opportunities for democratic participation, including civic engagement and the opportunity to impact and participate in decision-making in matters affecting them through meaningful learning experiences for young people and all involved in the process. Projects can also support youth workers, decision-makers and other professionals involved in gaining understanding and skills on how to provide adequate opportunity, spaces, means and support for youth participation. They should also embed a participatory dimension, namely encouraging and supporting young people to actively lead and/or engage and participate in the conception and implementation of project activities as a pathway for participants to further engage in democratic life.
 5
 Projects should also improve participants’ understanding of the European Union and the common European values, including respect for democratic principles, human dignity, unity and diversity, intercultural dialogue, as well as European social, cultural and historical heritage.
Eligibility criteria
Who can apply?
Any eligible participating organisation established in an EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme can be the applicant. This organisation applies on behalf of all participating organisations involved in the project.
 6
Eligible participating organisations
A participating organisation can be:
a non-profit organisation or association, NGO; European Youth NGO; a public body at local, regional or national level; a social enterprise, or a profit-making body active in corporate social responsibility and with proven experience in the youth field, provided its involvement does not have a commercial purpose and is not aimed at generating profit  
an informal group of young people.
 3
established in an EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme or a third country not associated to the Programme neighbouring the EU (regions 1 to 4; see section “Eligible countries” in part A of this Guide).
Number and profile of participating organisations
National Youth participation projects: minimum one participating organisation must be involved.
Transnational and international Youth participation projects: minimum two participating organisations from different countries must be involved. 
The same organisation (one OID) cannot be involved in more than 5 applications per deadline in this action, either as applicant or partner.
Duration of project
From 3 to 24 months.
Venue(s) of the activities
The activities must take place in the country of one or more participating organisations. Activities can also take place at the seat of an Institution of the European Union if the activity is organised at or in cooperation with an EU institution
 7
, even in a national youth participation activity or if in the project there are no participating organisations from the country that hosts the Institution.
Exception: Activities cannot take place in Belarus or Russia.
Eligible participants
Young people aged between 13 and 30
 8
 residing in the country of the participating organisations and decision-makers relevant to the topics addressed by the project.
Facilitators and accompanying persons are not to be considered as participants of the activity, but are eligible for support under certain budget categories.
Where to apply?
To the National Agency of the country in which the applicant organisation is established.
When to apply?
Applicants have to submit their grant applications by the following dates:
12 February at 12:00:00 (midday Brussels time) for projects starting between 1 June and 31 December of the same year
1 October at 12:00:00 (midday Brussels time) for projects starting between 1 January and 31 May of the following year
How to apply?
Please see part C of this Guide for details on how to apply.
Annexes
If the project plans to implement mobility activities and/or any youth participation events: A timetable of each planned mobility and/or each event must be annexed to the application form.
Award criteria
Submitted applications will be assessed by assigning points out of a total of 100, based on the below criteria and weightings. To be considered for award, applications must pass the following thresholds:
At least 60 out of the total 100 points, and
At least half of the maximum score points in each of the three award criteria below
Relevance, rationale and impact (maximum score 30 points)
The extent to which
the applicant’s profile, experience, activities and target group(s) are relevant for the field of youth
the project will address one or more of the priorities of the EU Youth Dialogue or the Youth Goals
the project is suitable for contributing to the inclusion and diversity, green, digital and participatory dimensions of the Programme
the project is relevant for the objectives of the Action
the project is relevant for the respect and promotion of shared EU values, such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, as well as fighting any sort of discrimination
the project and the proposed activities address the needs of the young people and participating organisations
the project provides a European added value
the extent to which the project is suitable for producing high-quality learning outcomes for the participants
the project is likely to have an impact for participants and participating organisations, as well as for young people and organisations not directly participating in the project, at local, regional, national and/or European or global level
the project introduces newcomers and less experienced organisations to the Action, including groups of young people
Quality of project design (maximum score 40 points)
The extent to which:
the proposal demonstrates a consistency between identified needs, project objectives, participant profiles and activities proposed
the proposal describes in a clear and convincing manner the preparation, implementation and follow-up phases of the project, and the involvement of young people in all phases
the activities are designed in an accessible and inclusive way and are open to participants with diverse backgrounds and abilities
the activities incorporate sustainable and environmental-friendly practices
the project makes use of alternative, innovative and smart forms of youth participation
the proposed learning methods, including digital tools or virtual components, are appropriate for the activities and include a reflection process to identify and document the participants’ learning outcomes and use the European transparency and recognition tools, in particular Youthpass
Quality of project management (maximum score 30 points)
The extent to which:
practical arrangements, management, and support modalities are satisfying
measures to ensure safety and protection of participants, are adequate and effective
the tasks and responsibilities are clearly defined for the activities in accordance with Erasmus quality standards
the plan for cooperation and communication between the participants, participating organisations, as well as with other relevant stakeholders provides a supporting framework for the management of the project
the applicant has proposed an appropriate way of evaluating the project outcomes in relation to its objectives
the applicant has proposed an appropriate way of disseminating project outcomes within and outside the participating organisations
the project contains measures aimed at making its results sustainable beyond the project’s lifetime
Funding rules
 9
The budget of the project must be drafted according to the following funding rules (in euro):
Maximum grant awarded per project for Youth participation activities: 60.000 EUR
 10
Budget category - Project management
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs linked to the management and implementation of the project (e.g. preparation and implementation of project meetings and activities, cooperation and communication between partners, evaluation, dissemination and follow-up).
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the duration of the project.
Amount
EUR 500 per month
Budget category - Coaching costs
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs linked to the involvement of a coach for the young people implementing  the project, including where the grant beneficiary is a legal entity.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the venue country and the working days.
The request for financial support to cover coach costs must be motivated in the application form, and is subject to needs-based assessment by the National Agency. The duration of coaching is not linked to the project duration.
Amount
Table B3 (below) per day of work. Maximum 12 days.
Budget category - Inclusion support for participants
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Additional costs directly linked to participants with fewer opportunities, their accompanying persons and facilitators in project activities and events (including justified costs related to travel and subsistence if a grant for these participants is not requested through budget categories "Travel" and "Individual support").
Financing mechanism: real costs.
Rule of allocation: the request must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency.
Amount
100% of eligible costs
Budget category - Exceptional costs
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs for providing a financial guarantee, if the National Agency asks for it.
Financing mechanism: real costs.
Rule of allocation: the request must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency.
Amount
Financial guarantee: 80% of eligible costs
Table B3 Coaching costs
Country Group
Coach
Unit contribution per day
1. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Sweden, Norway241
2. Cyprus, Czechia, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Malta, Portugal, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain137
3. Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Lithuania, North Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Türkiye74
Additional funding for physical events carried out in the frame of the project
Budget category - Youth participation events support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs linked to the implementation of national and transnational and international physical events central to achieving the objectives of the Youth participation activities project. This budget category is not intended to cover the participation of staff of the participating organisation(s)/ members of the informal group(s) of young people and facilitators, as attendance to such events by these persons should be covered by the budget category “project management”.
Where projects include youth participation events with mobility, youth participation events support can be combined with funding for mobilities according to the applicable rules below.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of persons attending the event, excluding staff of the participating organisation(s)/ members of the informal group(s) of young people and facilitators.
Amount
EUR 100 per person
Additional funding for mobilities carried out in the framework of the project
Budget category - Travel
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Contribution to the travel costs of participants, their accompanying persons and facilitators from their place of origin to the venue of the project activity or the physical event and return, regardless of whether the travel is national or transnational.
Below 500 km, participant will, as a general rule, travel with low-emissions means of transport.
Over 500 KM, participants are strongly encouraged to use a combination of different modes of transport to make their travel more sustainable.
Participants travelling less than 10 km to the venue may be eligible for individual and inclusion support for organisations for activity days that overlap with the presence of participants eligible for travel support.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the travel distance and number of persons.
The applicant must indicate the distance between the place of origin and the venue of the activity
 11
 by using the distance calculator supported by the European Commission.
For itinerant activities, the applicant should add up the distances between individual venues and choose the distance band corresponding to the total.
 12
Amount
Travel distanceGreen travelNon-Green travel
10 – 99 km56 EUR28 EUR
100 – 499 km285 EUR211 EUR
500 – 1999 km417 EUR309 EUR
2000 – 2999 km535 EUR395 EUR
3000 – 3999 km785 EUR580 EUR
4000 – 7999 km1188 EUR1188 EUR
8000 km or more1735 EUR1735 EUR
Budget category - Individual Support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs linked to subsistence.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the receiving country, duration of the stay per participant, accompanying persons and facilitators (if necessary), including also one travel day before the activity and one travel day following the activity (if necessary), and up to four additional days for participants, accompanying persons and facilitators receiving a green travel grant
Amount
Table A2.1 (below) per participant per day
The table applies also for accompanying persons and facilitators.
Budget category - Inclusion support for organisations
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs related to the organisation of mobility activities involving participants with fewer opportunities. Facilitators and accompanying persons are not eligible for inclusion support for organisations.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of participants with fewer opportunities.
Amount
125 EUR per participant
Budget category - Exceptional costs
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Visa and visa-related costs, residence permits, vaccinations, medical certifications.
Expensive travel costs of participants, members of the informal group(s), accompanying persons and facilitators that cannot be supported with the standard "Travel" category due to geographical remoteness or other barriers (i.e. where the use of cleaner, lower carbon emission means of transport results in expensive travel costs).
Financing mechanism: real costs.
Rule of allocation: the request must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency. Expensive travel applies in cases where the travel support based on unit cost does not cover 70% of the travel costs. If awarded, exceptional costs for expensive travel replace travel support based on unit costs.
Amount
 Visa and visa-related costs, residence permits, vaccinations, medical certifications: 100% of eligible costs
Expensive travel: 80% of eligible travel costs
Table A2.1 Individual support for youth participation mobility activities
 Youth Participation Activities (euro per day)
Austria78
Belgium78
Bulgaria45
Croatia57
Cyprus63
Czech Republic53
Denmark81
Estonia48
Finland79
France67
Germany71
Greece68
Hungary60
Iceland76
Ireland73
Italy69
Latvia48
Liechtenstein77
Lithuania49
Luxembourg77
Malta57
Netherlands69
North Macedonia41
Norway83
Poland51
Portugal57
Romania46
Serbia47
Slovakia48
Slovenia54
Spain58
Sweden72
Türkiye50
Neighbouring third countries not associated to the Programme44
Footnote
 The main budget of this Action is allocated to support transnational activities involving organisations and participants from EU Member States and third countries associated to the Programme. However, up to 20% of the budget available can fund international activities including organisations and participants from third countries not associated to the Programme neighbouring the EU (regions 1 to 4; see section "Eligible countries" in Part A of this Guide).
 ↩ back
 In line with Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, the Union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values are common to the Member States in a society in which pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail.
 ↩ back
3
 a
 b
 Group of at least four young people between 13 and 30 years old. One of the members of the group who is at least 18-years old assumes the role of representative and takes responsibility on behalf of the group. Please check the glossary for the definition of an informal group. For the purpose of this action and any provisions relating to it, “an informal group of young people” shall fit under the notion “participating organisation”. Where a reference is made to “participating organisation” it shall be deemed to cover also an “informal group of young people”.
 Depending on their needs, young people implementing the project may use one or several coaches during the project.
 ↩ back
 For resources and inspiration, please see module 12 “Planning for participation” of Youth Participation Toolkit prepared by the SALTO PI and aiming to provide know-how, recommendations, tools and practical guidance on promoting participation of young people.
 ↩ back
 Participating organisations will need to sign an accession form to the applicant organisation. The accession forms should be provided at application stage and at the latest by the time of the grant agreement signature. For further information, please check Part C of this guide.
 ↩ back
 Seats of the Institutions of the European Union are Brussels, Frankfurt, Luxembourg and Strasbourg. See a list of EU institutions
 ↩ back
Please consider the following:  lower age limits - participants must have reached the minimum age at the start date of the activity.upper age limits - participants must not be older than the indicated maximum age at the start of the activity.
 ↩ back
 For the purpose of the Youth participation activities action, take note that “participant” refers to young people aged between 13 and 30  residing in the country of the participating organisations and decision-makers relevant to the topics addressed by the project.
 ↩ back
 This maximum amount does not include costs corresponding to the category “inclusion support for participants”.
 ↩ back
 For example, if a person from Madrid (Spain) is taking part in an activity in Rome (Italy), the applicant will  calculate the distance from Madrid to Rome (1365,28 KM) and then select the applicable travel distance band (i.e. between 500 and 1999 km).
 ↩ back
 For example, if a participant from Madrid (Spain) is taking part in an itinerant activity taking place first in Rome (Italy) and then Ljubljana (Slovenia), the applicant will first calculate the distance between Madrid and Rome (1365,28 KM), then between Rome and Ljubljana (489,75 KM) and add both distances (1855,03 KM)  b) select the applicable travel distance band (i.e. between 500 and 1999 KM) and c) calculate the EU grant that will provide a contribution to the costs of travel of the participant from Madrid to Ljubljana (via Rome) and return (275 EUR).
 ↩ back
 Tagged in: 
 Youth
Download:
 You can print and download this page in PDF format 
 You can also download the full guide here 
 Previous
 Next
Mobility projects for young people - “Youth Exchanges”
Mobility projects for youth workers
Mobility of staff in the field of sport
Mobility projects for young people - “DiscoverEU Inclusion Action”
Mobility for learners and staff in adult education