Mobility projects for youth workers
Under this Action
 1
, organisations can receive support to carry out projects comprising of one or more learning activities for the professional development and capacity building of youth workers and their organisations.
Objectives of the Action
This Action supports the professional development of youth workers and thereby the development of quality youth work at local, regional, national, European and international level, through non-formal and informal learning experiences in mobility activities. The Action contributes to the objectives of the EU Youth Strategy 2019-2027, particularly to the European Youth Work Agenda
 2
 for quality, innovation and recognition of youth work.
More specifically, Mobility projects for youth workers aim to:
provide non-formal and informal learning opportunities for educational and professional development of youth workers, contributing to high quality individual practice as well as to the evolution of youth work organisations and systems
build a community of youth workers that can support the quality of projects and activities for young people in EU programmes and beyond
develop local youth work practices and contribute to capacity building for quality youth work of the participants and their organisation, having a clear impact on the participating youth workers' regular work with young people
Policy context
The European Union Youth Strategy 2019-2027 is the framework for EU cooperation in the youth field based on the 2018 Council Resolution. The Strategy fosters youth participation in democratic life, supports social and civic engagement and aims to ensure that all young people have the necessary resources to take part in society. The EU Youth Strategy includes 11 European Youth Goals which identify cross-sectoral areas that affect young people’s lives. 
Under the core area ‘Connect’, the EU Youth Strategy facilitates connections and exchange of experience between young people as a pivotal asset for the future development of the EU. These connections are best fostered through different forms of mobility, such as Youth Exchanges and DiscoverEU. Under ‘Engage’, the Strategy facilitates youth participation through, for example, Youth Participation activities and the EU Youth Dialogue. Under ‘Empower’, the Strategy facilitates quality youth work through, for example, Youth Worker mobility and cooperation, training and networking.
Projects and activities in all formats and sectors can take inspiration from and contribute to the EU Youth Strategy. This can be done by identifying if and how the project contributes to realising
European Youth Goals
EU youth work policy
EU learning mobility policy
Legacy of the European Year of Youth
For support on how projects can be linked with the EU Youth Strategy, please contact your National Agency or the SALTO Resource Centres.
Thematic strategies in the youth field
The Erasmus+ Programme seeks to promote youth participation, reinforcement of the quality of informal and non-formal learning processes and development of quality youth work. Further support in these areas is available through specific thematic strategies, such as the Youth Participation Strategy, the Youthpass Strategy, and the European Training Strategy (ETS).
Description of the activities
Professional Development Activities (PDAs)
Professional development activities are transnational or international learning mobility activities supporting the professional development of youth workers. They can take the form of:
Study visits and different types of assignments, such as job shadowing, youth worker exchanges and peer learning, in youth work organisations and organisations active in the youth field abroad
Networking and community building among youth workers taking part in the action and supporting its objectives
Training courses supporting the development of competences (e.g. based on relevant existing competence models), to implement quality youth work practices or address and test innovative methods (for instance related to digital and smart youth work).
Seminars and workshops supporting in particular knowledge-building and best practices sharing linked to the objectives, values and priorities of the EU Youth Strategy and of the EU programmes contributing to its implementation. The following activities are not eligible for grants under Mobility projects for Youth Workers: academic study trips; activities that aim to make financial profit; activities that can be considered as tourism; festivals; holiday travel; performance tours, statutory meetings.
System development and outreach activities
Mobility projects for Youth Workers may include system development and outreach activities, which are complementary activities aiming at enhancing the impact of the mobility project on the field. They include all those activities contributing to the European Youth Work Agenda
 3
 for quality, innovation and recognition of youth work and bringing back lessons learnt and tools to the organisations involved in the projects and beyond. These complementary activities represent an opportunity for more experienced and resourceful beneficiaries to test innovative methods and responses to shared challenges, a sort of “European youth work lab” space stemming from the professional development activities implemented within the projects and having a resonance beyond them.
Production of tools and sharing of practices contributing to the development and evolution of youth workers organisations and systems, outreach and community building activities and the introduction to innovative methods including the use of digital technologies through youth work are some examples. These activities go beyond the follow-up dissemination activities, which are part of the normal project lifecycle, however more targeted and strategic dissemination activities can also fit under these complementary activities.
A System development and outreach activity can be carried out at transnational, international or national level.
Preparatory visits
Preparatory visits aim to ensure high quality activities by facilitating and preparing administrative arrangements, building trust and understanding and setting-up a solid partnership between the organisations and people involved. Preparatory Visits take place in the country of one of the receiving organisations before the start of the Professional Development Activity.
Setting up a project
A project supported by this action must include one or more Professional Development Activities. They may be combined in a flexible manner, depending on the objectives of the project and the needs of the participating organisation(s) and participating youth workers.
A project is implemented by at least two organisations. All organisations involved need to be identified at application stage as a solid partnership is fundamental condition for high quality project delivery. To ensure that the involved organisations benefit from their participation, the project should be of relevance for the organisations’ regular work with young people and in line with their objectives and needs. Organisations involved assume the roles of “sending” participants and/or “receiving” i.e. hosting the activity. One of the organisations takes also the role of coordinator and applies for the whole project on behalf of the partnership.
If deemed necessary, the beneficiary organisation may ask participants in a mobility project for youth workers for a contribution paid by the participants prior to the activity. The amount of the participants’ contribution must be very low,  remain proportional to the grant awarded for the implementation of the project, must be clearly justified by a direct benefit to the participant, its purpose well explained and justified to the participants, collected on a non-profit basis, and may not create unfair barriers to participation. Contributions cannot be collected from participants with fewer opportunities. The beneficiary can use the cost category “inclusion support” to cover any specific needs derived from the barriers faced by these participants. Additional fees or other participant contributions cannot be collected by other service providers chosen by the beneficiary organisation. Any contributions collected from the participants must be declared by the beneficiary in the final report.
A project consists of four stages:
Planning (define the needs, objectives, learning outcomes, activity formats, development of work programme, schedule of activities, etc.)
Preparation (practical arrangements, selection of participants, set up of agreements with partners, linguistic/intercultural/learning- and task-related preparation of participants before departure etc.)
Implementation of activities
Follow-up (evaluation of the activities, identification and documentation of the learning outcomes of participants, as well as dissemination and exploitation of the project's outcomes)
A quality Mobility project for Youth Workers:
has a clear impact on the participating youth workers’ regular work with young people and on their organisation
relies on the active involvement of participating organisations and youth workers, who should take an active role in all the stages of the project, enhancing in this way their learning and development experience
is based on clearly identified youth worker educational and 
 professional development4
 needs notably around quality, innovation and recognition, and accompanied by appropriate selection, preparation and follow-up measures
ensures that the non-formal and informal learning outcomes of the participants are properly recognised and that the project outcomes, including any methods, materials and tools, are transferable and used within the participating organisations, contributing to the evolution of youth work organisations, and further widely disseminated in the youth field
encourages the participants to reflect on European topics and values and provides youth workers with tools and methods to promote the respect and manage diversity in their daily work
promotes the usage of innovative practices and methods such as inclusion of digital youth work activities with a view to be an instrument for prevention of any forms of online disinformation and fake news
Training and Cooperation Activities (TCAs) are regularly organised by Erasmus+ National Agencies. They include contact seminars, online events, and other partner-finding opportunities for Erasmus+ applicants and beneficiaries. Information about TCAs is available in the European Training Calendar. Inspiration can also be found among SALTO Tools.
Learning Process
A Mobility project for Youth Workers needs to envisage support for the reflection process, identification and documentation of learning outcomes, in particular through Youthpass, to support the recognition and impact of the project outcomes, the resulting youth work practices, methodologies and materials in the youth field.
Protection and safety of participants
During the planning and preparation of a project, the issue of protection and safety of the participants should be addressed and all necessary measures to prevent/reduce risks should be foreseen.
Erasmus+ Youth Quality Standards
The implementation of all projects supported under this Action must follow the Erasmus+ Youth Quality standards for organising high quality learning mobility activities. The Erasmus+ Youth Quality Standards cover the basic principles of the Action, as well as concrete implementation practices for project tasks such as selection and preparation of participants, definition, evaluation and recognition of learning outcomes, sharing of project results, etc.
Horizontal dimensions
When designing a mobility project, the following horizontal dimensions must be considered.
Inclusion and Diversity
The Erasmus+ Programme seeks to promote equal opportunities and access, inclusion and fairness across all its actions. Organisations should design accessible and inclusive project activities, taking into account the views of participants with fewer opportunities and involving them in the decision making process.
Mobility projects for Youth Workers are particularly suitable to enhance the diversity awareness of youth workers as well as to improve skills and competences needed to successfully involve participants with fewer opportunities in youth work practice. The involvement of the participating youth workers in all stages of the project fosters careful guidance through the learning and development process and allows a closer follow up.
The presence of trainers and facilitators in most of the activities ensures a closer and adapted approach, tailor-made to the needs of the participants
The whole project should take a conscious approach towards inclusion and diversity. In the planning, preparation, implementation and follow-up these aspects should be taken into consideration. Especially important is the way the project enhances the ability of the participating organisations to address issues of inclusion and diversity in their regular activities.
The format is also suitable to involve participants with fewer opportunities. The flexibility offered by the action in the format of the activities (e.g. duration, type etc…) makes it adaptable to the needs of participants. Mobility projects for Youth Workers are also suitable to work on inclusion and diversity as the subject of the project, for example exchanging inclusive practices and methods.
Mobility project for Youth Workers are also suitable to work on inclusion and diversity as the subject of the project, for example exchanging inclusive practices and methods.
Environmental sustainability
A project should promote environmentally sustainable and responsible behaviour among participants, raising the awareness about the importance of acting to reduce or compensate for the environmental footprint of mobility activities. It should be designed and implemented with environmental consciousness by e.g. integrating sustainable practices such as opting for reusable or eco-friendly materials, reducing waste and recycling, sustainable means of transportation.
Digital transformation
The Erasmus+ Programme supports all participating organisations in incorporating the use of digital tools and learning methods to complement their physical activities, to improve the cooperation between partner organisations, and to improve the quality of the activities. The introduction of digital and online elements to lower the threshold of participation of participants with fewer opportunities is encouraged. Through projects and activities that aim to boost digital skills, foster digital literacy and/or develop an understanding of the risks and opportunities of digital technology, the programme can change mindsets and contribute to developing digital and blended approaches in youth activities.
Depending on the design and objectives of the activities, the development of competences and awareness on digital issues, and the use of new technologies can be introduced in learning mobilities.
Participation in democratic life, common values and civic engagement
The Erasmus+ Programme supports all dimensions of youth participation. Mobility activities for youth workers should reinforce the participants’ participatory skills, social and intercultural competences, critical thinking and media literacy, as well as their professional competences for supporting youth participation. Wherever possible, projects should offer youth workers opportunities for democratic participation, including civic engagement and the opportunity to impact and participate in decision-making in matters affecting them. They should also embed a participatory dimension, namely offering relevant opportunities for youth workers to actively engage and participate in the conception and implementation of project activities
 5
. Projects should also improve participants’ understanding of the European Union and the common European values, including respect for democratic principles, human dignity, unity and diversity, intercultural dialogue, as well as European social, cultural and historical heritage. 
Eligibility criteria
Who can apply?
Any eligible participating organisation established in an EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme can be the applicant. This organisation applies on behalf of all participating organisations involved in the project
 6
Eligible participating organisations
A participating organisation can be a non-profit organisation, association, NGO; European Youth NGO; a public body at local, regional, national level; a social enterprise; or a profit-making body active in corporate social responsibility and with proven experience in the youth field, provided its involvement does not have a commercial purpose and is not aimed at generating profit.
A participating organisation must be established in an EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme or a third country not associated to the Programme neighbouring the EU (regions 1 to 4; see section “Eligible countries” in part A of this Guide).
Number of participating organisations
Minimum two participating organisations (at least one sending and at least one receiving organisation) from different countries must be involved.
The same organisation (one OID) cannot be involved in more than 5 applications per deadline in this action, either as applicant or partner.
Duration of project
From 3 to 24 months
Where to apply?
To the National Agency of the country in which the applicant organisation is established.
When to apply?
Applicants have to submit their grant applications by the following dates:
12 February at 12:00:00 (midday Brussels time) for projects starting between 1 June and 31 December of the same year
1 October at 12:00:00 (midday Brussels time) for projects starting between 1 January and 31 May of the following year
How to apply?
Please see part C of this Guide for details on how to apply.
Annexes
Each project must include at least one Professional Development Activity.
A timetable for each of the Professional Development Activities, preparatory visits and System development and outreach activities planned in the project must be annexed to the application form.
Minimum requirements for Professional Development Activities
Duration of activities
From 2 to 60 days, excluding travel days. The minimum 2 days must be consecutive.
Venue(s) of the activities
The activities must take place in the country of one (or several, in case of itinerant activities) of the organisations participating in the activity.
Exception: Activities cannot take place in Belarus or Russia.
Number of participating organisations
Minimum two participating organisations (at least one sending and at least one receiving organisation) from different countries must be involved.
Activities within EU Member States and third countries associated to the Programme: all participating organisations must be from an EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme.
Activities with third countries not associated to the Programme neighbouring the EU: the activity must involve at least one participating organisation from an EU Member State or third country associated to the Programme and one participating organisation from a third country not associated to the Programme neighbouring the EU (regions 1 to 4).
Eligible participants
Minimum 16 years old.
Participants must be resident in the country of their sending or receiving organisation.
Trainers, accompanying persons and facilitators are not to be considered as participants of the activity, but are eligible for support under certain budget categories.
Number of participants
Number of participants: Up to 50 participants (excluding, where relevant, trainers, accompanying persons and facilitators) in each activity planned by the project. Participants from the country of the receiving organisation must be involved in each activity.
Other criteria
At least one of the sending organisations or the receiving organisations in the activity must be from the country of the National Agency to which the application is submitted.
Minimum requirements for preparatory visits
Venue(s) of the activity
The activity must take place in the country of one of the receiving organisations for the professional development activity.
Exception: Activities cannot take place in Belarus or Russia.
Eligible participants
Representatives of the participating organisations, trainers and facilitators
 7
.
Award criteria
Submitted applications will be assessed by assigning points out of a total of 100, based on the below criteria scores. To be considered for award, applications must pass the following thresholds:
at least 60 out of the total 100 points, and
at least half of the maximum score points in each of the three award criteria below.
Relevance, rationale and impact  (maximum score 30 points)
The extent to which
the applicant’s profile, experience and activities are relevant to the youth work field
the project will address one or more of the project to:priorities of the EU Youth Dialogue or the Youth Goals
the project is suitable for contributing to the inclusion and diversity, green, digital and participatory dimensions of the Programme
the project proposal is relevant for the objectives of the Action
the project is relevant for the respect and promotion of shared EU values, such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, as well as fighting any sort of discrimination
the project and the proposed activities address the needs of development of the participating youth workers and youth work organisation
the project is suitable for:
reinforcing or transforming the participating organisations’ practice, in relation to quality, innovation and recognition of youth work, as well as their scope, from local to global as appropriate
producing high-quality learning outcomes for participating youth workers;involving participants active in youth work in the participating organisations as well as organisations who undertake concrete youth work and regular work with young people on local level
producing impact  on participating youth workers and participating organisations during and after the project lifetime
producing impact outside the organisations and on individuals not directly participating in the project, at local, regional, national and/or European or global level.(if applicable) the proposed system development and outreach activities are contributing to the development of youth work environment
the project introduces newcomers and less experienced organisations to the Action
Quality of the project design and implementation (maximum score 40 points)
The extent to which
the proposal demonstrates a consistency between identified needs, project objectives, participant profiles and activities proposed
the proposal describes in a clear and convincing manner all the phases of the project (preparation, implementation and follow-up) and the active involvement of the participants in all the phases
the balanced representation of participants in terms of countries and gender is respected
the measures for selecting youth workers are appropriate and in line with youth worker definition in legal base
the activities are designed in an accessible and inclusive way and are open to participants with diverse backgrounds and abilities
the activities incorporate sustainable and environmental-friendly practices
the proposed learning methods, including digital tools or virtual components, are appropriate for the activities
the support measures for reflection process, the identification and documentation of the participants' learning outcomes, and the use of transparency and recognition tools, in particular Youthpass, are appropriate
(if applicable) the tools and practices proposed under “system development and outreach activities” are appropriate and can be replicated and inspire other organisations
Quality of project management (maximum score 30 points)
The extent to which
the quality of the practical arrangements, management and support modalities are satifying
the measures foreseen to ensure safety and protection of participants are adequate and effective
the tasks and responsibilities for the activities are clearly defined in accordance with Erasmus quality standards
the plan for cooperation and communication between the participants of the group(s), participating organisations, as well as with other relevant stakeholders; provides a supporting framework for the management of the project
the applicant has proposed an appropriate way of evaluating the different phases and outcomes of the project in relation to its objectives
the applicant has proposed an appropriate way of disseminating the project outcomes within and outside the participating organisations
the project contains measures aimed at making its results sustainable beyond the project’s lifetime
Funding rules
Budget category - Organisational Support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs directly linked to the implementation of mobility activities.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of participants. Accompanying persons, trainers and facilitators are not eligible for organisational support.
Amount
125 EUR per participant in a Professional Development Activity.
Budget category - Travel
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Contribution to the travel costs of participants, including accompanying persons and facilitators, from their place of origin to the venue of the activity and return.
Below 500 km, participant will, as a general rule, travel with low-emissions means of transport.
Over 500 KM, participants are strongly encouraged to use a combination of different modes of transport to make their travel more sustainable.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the travel distance and number of persons.
The applicant must indicate the distance between the place of origin and the venue of the activity
 8
 by using the distance calculator supported by the European Commission.
For itinerant activities, the applicant should add up the distances between individual venues and choose the distance band corresponding to the total.
 9
Amount
Travel distanceGreen travelNon-Green travel
10 – 99 km56 EUR28 EUR
100 – 499 km285 EUR211 EUR
500 – 1999 km417 EUR309 EUR
2000 – 2999 km535 EUR395 EUR
3000 – 3999 km785 EUR580 EUR
4000 – 7999 km1188 EUR1188 EUR
8000 km or more1735 EUR1735 EUR
Budget category - Individual Support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs linked to subsistence.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the receiving country, the duration of the stay per participant, accompanying persons, trainers and facilitators (if necessary), including also one travel day before the activity and one travel day following the activity, and up to four additional days for participants, for trainers, facilitators and accompanying person receiving a green travel grant.
Amount
Table A2.2 (below) per participant per day.
This table also applies for trainers, facilitators and accompanying persons.
Maximum 1100 EUR per participant, trainers, facilitators and accompanying persons.
Budget category - Inclusion Support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Inclusion support for organisations: Costs related to the organisation of mobility activities involving participants with fewer opportunities. Trainers, accompanying persons and facilitators are not eligible for inclusion support for organisations.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: based on the number of participants with fewer opportunities.
Amount
125 EUR per participant
Inclusion support for participants: Additional costs directly linked to participants with fewer opportunities and their accompanying persons, trainers and facilitators (including justified costs related to travel and subsistence if a grant for these participants is not requested through budget categories "Travel" and "Individual support").
Financing mechanism: real costs.
Rule of allocation: the request must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency.
100% of eligible costs
Budget category - Preparatory visit support
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs linked to the implementation of the preparatory visit including travel and subsistence.
Financing mechanism: contribution to unit costs.
Rule of allocation: excluding participants from the receiving organisation. A maximum of 2 participants per participating organisation can be funded per activity. In addition, one facilitator/trainer from any of the participating organisations can also be funded per preparatory visit. Conditional: the need for a Preparatory Visit, objectives and participants must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency.  This condition does not apply for projects funded under the accreditation system.
Amount
680 EUR per participant per preparatory visit.
Budget category - System development and outreach activities
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs linked to the implementation of the complementary activities.
Indirect costs: A flat-rate amount, not exceeding 7 % of the eligible direct costs of the complementary activities, is eligible under indirect costs, representing the beneficiary's general administrative costs which can be regarded as chargeable to the complementary activities (e.g. electricity or internet bills, costs for premises, cost of permanent staff, etc.).
Financing mechanism: real costs, for direct costs and flat rate for indirect costs.
Rule of allocation: the need and objectives must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency. Maximum 10% of the total project costs can be allocated to these activities.
Amount
Maximum up to 80% of eligible costs.
Budget category - Exceptional costs
Eligible costs and applicable rules
Costs for providing a financial guarantee, if the National Agency asks for it.
Visa and visa-related costs, residence permits, vaccinations, medical certifications.
Expensive travel costs of participants, accompanying persons, trainers and facilitators that cannot be supported with the standard "Travel" category due to geographical remoteness or other barriers (i.e. where the use of cleaner, lower carbon emission means of transport results in expensive travel costs). If awarded, the exceptional costs for expensive travel replace the travel support based on unit costs.
Financing mechanism: real costs.
Rule of allocation: the request must be justified by the applicant and approved by the National Agency. Expensive travel applies in cases where the travel support based on unit cost does not cover 70% of the travel costs of participants. If awarded, the exceptional costs for expensive travel replace the non-green travel grant.
Amount
Financial guarantee: 80% of eligible costs
Expensive travel costs: 80% of eligible travel costs
Visa and visa-related costs, residence permits, vaccinations, medical certifications: 100% of eligible costs
Table A2.2 Individual support for Professional Development Activities
 Individual Support (euro per day)
Austria84
Belgium88
Bulgaria60
Croatia75
Cyprus81
Czechia65
Denmark95
Estonia76
Finland93
France85
Germany77
Greece80
Hungary77
Iceland99
Ireland91
Italy85
Latvia66
Liechtenstein84
Lithuania65
Luxembourg84
Malta77
Netherlands92
North Macedonia57
Norway94
Poland68
Portugal78
Romania64
Serbia59
Slovakia67
Slovenia78
Spain81
Sweden87
Türkiye68
Neighbouring third countries not associated to the Programme62
Footnote
 The main budget of this Action is allocated to support transnational activities involving organisations and participants from EU Member States and third countries associated to the Programme. However, up to 20% of the budget available can fund international mobility activities including organisations and participants from third countries not associated to the Programme neighbouring the EU (regions 1 to 4; see section "Eligible countries" in Part A of this Guide).
 ↩ back
 Resolution of the Council and of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council on the Framework for establishing a European Youth Work Agenda. More information on the implementation of the European Youth Work Agenda can be found at www.bonn-process.net.
 ↩ back
 http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2020.415.01.0001.01.ENG and https://growingyouthwork.eu/  
 ↩ back
 “European Training Strategy Competence model for Youth Workers to work internationally”
 ↩ back
 For resources and inspiration, please see module 12 (Planning for participation) of the Youth Participation Toolkit prepared by SALTO PI and aiming to provide know-how, recommendations, tools and practical guidance and reflection for youth workers on how to promote youth participation
 ↩ back
 Participating organisations will need to sign a mandate to the applicant organisation. The mandates should be provided at application stage and at the latest by the time of the grant agreement signature. For further information, please check Part C of this guide.
 ↩ back
 Persons taking part in preparatory visits are expected to also participate in the main activity.
 ↩ back
 For example, if a person from Madrid (Spain) is taking part in an activity in Rome (Italy), the applicant will calculate the distance from Madrid to Rome (1365,28 KM) and then select the applicable travel distance band (i.e. between 500 and 1999 km).
 ↩ back
 For example, if a participant from Madrid (Spain) is taking part in an itinerant activity taking place first in Rome (Italy) and then Ljubljana (Slovenia), the applicant will first calculate the distance between Madrid and Rome (1365,28 KM), then between Rome and Ljubljana (489,75 KM) and add both distances (1855,03 KM)  b) select the applicable travel distance band (i.e. between 500 and 1999 KM) and c) calculate the EU grant that will provide a contribution to the costs of travel of the participant from Madrid to Ljubljana (via Rome) and return (275 EUR).
 ↩ back
 Tagged in: 
 Youth
Download:
 You can print and download this page in PDF format 
 You can also download the full guide here 
 Previous
 Next
Mobility projects for young people - “Youth Exchanges”
Youth participation activities
Mobility of staff in the field of sport
Mobility for learners and staff in adult education
Mobility for learners and staff in vocational education and training