Mobility opportunities for accredited Erasmus organisations in the field of youth
Accredited organisations have the possibility to apply for funding for youth mobility activities in a simplified way. Applications are based on the previously approved accreditation Activity Plan, so a detailed list and description of the planned activities is not required. Instead, the applications focus on estimating the number of activities to be implemented and number of participants involved.
The mobility activities to be implemented under this Action
 1
 must comply with the minimum requirements laid down for each activity type in the respective sections of this Guide.
Accredited organisations commit themselves to comply with the Erasmus Youth Quality Standards and deliver high quality mobility activities in the field of youth.
Accredited youth organisations are not eligible for funding under the standard Youth Exchanges and Mobility projects for youth workers. They can however take the role of partner in those projects. Exceptionally for 2021, organisations which were awarded the accreditation after the deadline for the grant request are eligible for funding under the 2nd deadline for standard Youth Exchanges and Mobility projects for youth workers.
Eligibility criteria
The general criteria below apply for grant requests.
Who can apply?
Any organisation holding a valid Erasmus accreditation in the field of youth on the project start date.
Eligible activities
Youth Exchanges
Youth workers professional development activities
Additionally, the following activities can be implemented
Preparatory visits
System development and outreach activities (only in conjunction with youth workers professional development activities)
Description and eligibility criteria for each of these activities are defined under the relevant sections of this Guide.
Duration of project
The duration of an accredited project is between 12 and 24 months. After 12 months, all beneficiaries will have the possibility to prolong their project to a total duration of 24 months.
Where to apply?
To the National Agency of the country in which the applicant organisation is established
When to apply?
Applicants have to submit their grant applications by:
12 February at 12:00:00 (midday Brussels time) for projects starting on 1 June of the same year.
How to apply?
Please see part C of this Guide for details on how to apply.
Other minimum requirements
An accredited organisation can apply only once per call (year) for an accredited project.
Budget allocation
The awarded grant amount will depend on a number of elements:
the total budget available for allocation to accredited applicants
the requested activities
the minimum and maximum grant
the following allocation criteria: financial performance, qualitative performance, policy priorities and thematic areas addressed by the activities applied for, and geographical balance (if applied by the National Agency).
Detailed rules on basic and maximum grant, scoring of the allocation criteria, weighting of each criterion, the allocation method, and the budget available for accredited projects will be published by the National Agency ahead of the call deadline.
The budget available for accredited projects and detailed rules of budget allocation will be published by the National Agency ahead of the call deadline. Budget allocation rules must respect the principles of fairness, transparency and equal treatment. Indicators and metrics used in budget allocation must be objective, verifiable and their values must be known to the applicants ahead of the call deadline.
Based on the applicable unit contributions and historical data, the National Agency will estimate the budget required to implement the activities requested by each applicant. Applicants cannot be awarded a grant higher than the resulting estimated budget.
If an applicant is awarded the full estimated budget required to implement their requested activities, then the activities requested in the application will be included in the project grant agreement as targets for delivery. Otherwise, if the applicant is not awarded the full estimated budget, then the targets for delivery will be adjusted to stay proportional to the awarded grant
 2
.
Budget for cost categories ‘Inclusion support for participants’ and ‘Exceptional costs’ cannot be estimated in the same way as budget for cost categories applying unit contributions. The National Agency will assess requests for these types of costs separately, based on provided description and justification. During project implementation, beneficiaries can make further requests for these types of costs when needed. The National Agency will process such additional requests in order of reception, as long as funds remain available. 
Footnote
 The main budget of this Action is allocated to support transnational activities involving organisations and participants from EU Member States and third countries associated to the Programme. However, up to 20% of the budget available can fund international mobility activities including organisations and participants from third countries not associated to the Programme neighbouring the EU (regions 1 to 4; see section "Eligible countries" in Part A of this Guide).
 ↩ back
 The National Agency can make limited modifications to the proportional adjustment to allow for a better fit between the awarded grant and target activities, to ensure coherence with the approved Erasmus Plan, to provide adequate support for priority activities, to maintain at least one participant in each activity type and category requested by the applicant, and to comply with the rules of the call.
 ↩ back
 Tagged in: 
 Youth
Download:
 You can print and download this page in PDF format 
 You can also download the full guide here 
 Previous
 Next
Mobility for learners and staff in adult education
Mobility for pupils and staff in school education
Mobility for learners and staff in vocational education and training
Mobility projects for young people - “Youth Exchanges”
Mobility projects for higher education students and staff